CIR-191783/2021-CARBENDAZIM  + MANCOZEB (WS) (429)-2276 
www.raccolto.in 
CARBENDAZIM 12%  + MANCOZEB 63%   WS 
( Systemic and Contact Fungicide ) 
Mancozeb 63% + Carbendazim 12% WS is a systemic and contact fungicide used for seed treatment 
for the effective control of tikka leaf spot, collar rot and dry root rot diseases of groundnut. 
Recommendation 
Crop(s) Common Name of 
Pest 
Dosage/HA 
Dilution 
in Water 
(Liter) 
Groundnut Tikka leaf spot, Collar 
rot, Dry root rot 
AI  
(gm) 
1.88 
Formulation 
(gm) 
2.5 - 
Waiting 
Period 
between 
last spray 
to harvest 
(Days) 
Re-entry 
after each 
Applicatio 
n (In 
Hours) - 
Direction of Use - 
To treat the seed, prepare slurry with requisite quantity of product with 10 ml of water per Kg of 
seed and swirled in a closed container to make uniform coating on the seeds. Coated seeds are then 
shade dry and to be sown on the same day or next day. 
Time of Application - 
Precaution 
1. The person should use appropriate protective clothing like hat, long sleeved shirt, long pants and 
shoes.   
2. Avoid contact with eye and skin when handling the concentrates spray solution. Avoid inhalation 
of spray mist, wash thoroughly with soap and water after handling. Do not eat, drink or smoke 
during application. 
3. Remove contaminated clothes and wash before reuse. Do not reuse the empty containers. 
4. Wash hand & exposed skin with soap and water before meals and after work. 
5. After application of this fungicide, the utensils should be thoroughly cleaned with plenty of soap 
and water. 
Warning:  
1. Not to be used on crops and pests other than mentioned on label & leaflets 
2. Not to be used for post-harvest application. 
3. Destroy Containers after use as directed on leaflet. 
Symptoms Of Poisoning 
Sweating headache lethargy coughing sneezing itching nausea vomiting may occur. tightness In 
chest ,palpitation, Hypotension, Dierrhea, hypethermia and ataxia, abdomen pain. 
First Aid 
www.raccolto.in 
1. If ingested: if person is conscious and alert, rinse mouth with water and give 1 or 2 glass of water 
to drink. Never give anything by mouth to an unconscious person. Call the doctor. Do not induce 
vomiting until and unless desired by attending physician.  
2. If inhaled: Take the patient to fresh air and take care of body temperature. If patient is not 
breathing or breathing with difficulty, give artificial respiration, preferably with mouth to mouth 
breathing. Consult a physician. 
3. In case of skin contact: wash thoroughly the affected part of body with soap and plenty of water 
including hair and under fingernails. If pain, redness or irritation persists, consult a doctor. All the 
contaminated clothes should be segregated and thoroughly washed with soap and water separately 
before use.  
4. In case of eye contact: Rinse gently with plenty of water at least for 15 minutes. If pain, irritation, 
redness or photophobia persist. Consult eye specialist. 
Phytotoxicity - 
Antidote 
No specific antidote is known, Treat symptomatically. 
Disposal Of Used Container 
1. It shall be the duty of the manufacturers, formulators of fungicides and operators to dispose 
packages or surplus materials  and washing in safe manner so as to prevent environmental and 
water pollution. 
2. The used packages shall not be left outside to prevent their re-use. 
3. Packages shall be broken and buried away from habitation. 
4. Dangerous to re-use empty containers. 
Storage Conditions 
1. The packages containing fungicide shall be stored in separate rooms or premises , away from the 
rooms or premises used for storing other article or shall be kept in separate almirahs under lock 
and key depending open the quantity and nature of the fungicide. 
2. The store room should be well built , well-lit, ventilated and sufficient in dimensions. The 
condition of the store should be dry and cool. 
Chemical Composition: 
Mancozeb a.i 
Carbendazim a.i 
Calcium 4-[(5-chloro-4-methyl1
2sulphonatophenyl)azo]-3-hydroxy
2naphthoate (Organic Azo Pigment) 
Precipitate silica 
Phenolsulfonic acid
formaldehydepolycondensate as 
sodium salt 
63.00 % w/w 
12.00 % w/w 
3.00 % w/w 
1.00 % w/w 
1.20 % w/w 
www.raccolto.in 
Naphthalene sulphonic acid, 
formaldehyde, sodium salt 
Ethylene glycol 
Sodium lingo sulphonate 
Kaolin 
1.20 % w/w 
3.00 % w/w 
1.20 % w/w 
Q.S. %  
Total: 
100.000 
% w/w 