COFFEE CULTIVATION GUIDE
 FOR
 SOUTH - WEST MONSOON AREA GROWERS IN INDIA
 (COFFEE KAIPIDI)
 English Version of “mungaru male pradeshada coffee belegararige coffee 
kaipidi”)-2008
 No part of this coffee kaipidi should be reproduced in any form by any process, 
except for brief quotations for review articles, without the written permission of 
the Director of Research.
 Published by
 Director of Research
 Central Coffee Research Institute
 Coffee Research Station-577117
 Chikmagalur District
 Karnataka,India
2
 Sri.G.V.Krishna Rau, I.A.S
 Chairman, Coffee Board
 Foreword
                                        No.1 Dr.Ambedkar veedhi
                                        Bangalore-560 001
 Central coffee Research Institute and Extension wing of Coffee Board have brought 
out many publications covering the various technological aspects of coffee cultivation 
for use by coffee growers. In order to maintain the coffee estates in good condition 
and to increase the production and productivity, it is very important to follow and 
adopt the improved technologies like use of improved high yielding plant varieties, 
soil conservation and fertility maintenance, efficient use of agrochemicals and 
fertilizers, plant training, irrigation, shade management, post harvest processing, 
integrated pest and disease management practices. Coffee being a perennial crop, it is 
necessary that   the plants have to be taken care off in a timely manner by attending all 
the cultural and maintenance operations. The production and productivity of coffee in 
India has registered phenomenal growth over the years, but there is still a wide gap 
between the potential and the actual. Concerted effort of growers and 
Research/Extension workers is the need of the hour especially during the regime of 
changing environmental conditions to narrow down this gap so that improved 
production and productivity could be achieved at lower input costs. Research and 
Extension wings of the Coffee Board have played important role in transferring the 
improved coffee cultivation techniques to the growers. Keeping in view the actual 
needs of the growers, this coffee cultivation guide book has been brought out for the 
use of coffee growers in the South-West monsoon areas which details the latest 
technologies and their uses. I wish that this hand book will be of immense help to 
growers. I congratulate all the Research and Extension officers who have put in very 
valuable efforts in bringing out this hand book.
 2
3
 For The growers of South-west Monsoon Area
 (ARABICA)
 CULTURAL OPERATIONS TO BE CARRIED OUT DURING
 DECEMBER-JANUARY MONTHS
 1. Nursery
 2. Arabica coffee harvesting
 3. Coffee Processing
 (a) : Preparation of Parchment coffee
 (b) : Preparation of Cherry coffee
 4. Coffee effluent management
 5. Coffee Berry Borer Management
 6. Dadap protection
 7. Weeding
 8. Watering of young coffee plants
 9. Soil testing and liming of soils
 ********
 1.Nursery
 A gentle sloping land without big shade trees is preferred for raising nurseries. 
Water should not stagnate in the nursery sites. Stagnant water near the nursery beds 
cause rotting of seedlings. Suitable water resource should be available near the 
nursery for timely watering of the nursery beds and seedlings. Any shade trees near 
the nursery will damage the young nursery seedlings in the beds and poly bags due to 
water dripping from them. 
For sowing the coffee seeds, germination beds of 1 metre width and of 
convenient length raised to a height of 15 cm from the ground level should be 
prepared. About 4 bags (10Kgs) of matured farm yard manure or compost well dried 
under sun light be mixed with 2 Kgs of fine Agricultural lime and 0.5 Kgs of Rock 
Phosphate and thoroughly incorporated in the nursery beds measuring 1X6 metres. In 
the nursery high clay content should not be used as they restrict the air circulation 
causing damage to the sprouting seeds. If one is using the clayish soil, then it should 
be mixed with coarse sand properly to enable easy air circulation. Any deficit air 
circulation in the nursery soil will cause stunted unhealthy development of the 
seedlings sometimes resulting in death of the seedlings. The nursery sites should be 
totally free from nematodes. Therefore, it is advised and recommended that before 
preparing the nursery, the soils of the nursery site as well as the soils to be used to 
prepare the nursery beds should be tested in the laboratories for the presence of 
nematodes.  One should note that the compost/farm yard manure used in the nursery 
should be free from cockchafer pests.
 Selected and certified seeds can be sown during December or January in the nursery 
beds. The seeds be sown with their flat side facing the soil which helps early 
germination and easy rooting in the soil. After sowing, the seeds are covered with a 
thin layer of finely sieved soil and mulched with a layer of paddy straw which ensures 
optimum temperature for seed germination and protects the seeds from desiccation. If 
3
4
 paddy straw is not available, any kind of other grass materials can be used for 
mulching. The beds are then daily optimally watered in the morning hours with rose 
cans. The seeds will germinate in about 40-45 days and attain button or topee stage. 
Once this stage is reached the mulch covering the beds should be carefully removed 
without damaging the germinated seeds. The seedlings at topee or button stage can be 
then transplanted into either into poly bags or in the secondary nursery beds as the 
need may be.  
       GROWN UP BEARING ARABICA COFFEE PLANTS
 2. Arabica coffee harvesting
 In order to maintain and protect the coffee beverage quality, aroma, thickness 
of the brew, taste and flavour as well as acidity in the cup, the right kind of coffee 
fruits have to be harvested in right time following certain suggested guidelines. 
Improper harvesting will result in spoiling the cup quality even if the coffee plants are 
known to belong to top quality category. Therefore, following the right kind of 
harvesting procedure will help in protecting the inherent quality as well as helps in 
getting premium prices.
 Coffee fruits have to be picked as and when they become ripe; this can be understood 
by gently squeezing the fruit with fingers. On gentle squeeze, the bean inside the fruit 
pops out easily. Under ripe or over ripe fruits should not be mixed or used for the 
4
5
 preparation of parchment coffee as they can spoil the overall cup quality. The under 
ripe coffee fruits result in the production of immature beans and the over ripe ones 
cause foxy coffee resulting in brown beans with fruity cup. If the harvest is not 
possible as and when fruits rightly mature, the under ripe and over ripe fruits needs to 
be separated from the lot and only right kind of desired fruits have to be pulped in the 
course of preparation of parchment coffee. 
The under and over ripe fruits can be converted into cherry coffee. While 
harvesting the coffee, picking mats should be used, this helps in easy collection of 
fallen fruits and prevents the mould formation. Prevention of mould formation avoids 
the production of Ochra Toxin-A in coffee beans. Use of picking mats also reduces 
the Coffee Berry Borer infection. One should note that, clean gunny bags or plastic 
bags should be used for collecting the fruits during harvesting. These bags have to be 
regularly washed with clean water, dried and used for collecting the fruits. Bags used 
for storing chemicals, fertilizers, pesticides, insecticides and fungicides should never 
be used for harvesting coffee fruits. No fruits should be allowed to remain in the 
plants after the end of season harvest as it can invite berry borer infestation. 
‘
 ARABICA COFFEE HARVESTING
 3. Coffee Processing
 (a): Preparation of Parchment coffee
 Parchment coffee or plantation coffee can be prepared by pulping, cleanly washed 
with water and dried under sun. Preparation of such coffee requires pulping 
equipments and adequate supply of clean water. The quality of parchment coffee is 
always superior to that of cherry coffee (whole fruit dried under sun). Cherry coffees 
always give fruity taste as the beans are in contact with the mucilage for a longer time 
5
6
 during the course of drying period. Therefore, wet processing of coffee is essential to 
get superior quality coffee and the method can be followed wherever, all the adequate 
facilities like sufficient clean water and good processing machineries are available.
 The pulper, pulper tanks, siphon tanks, rakers, washer, fermentation tanks 
should be thoroughly cleaned before the pulping operation is undertaken. The 
premises of the pulper unit as well as the drying yards should be kept in hygienic way. 
The pulper unit should be properly adjusted depending on the fruit size and checked 
every day to prevent cuts. Pulper nipped and other deformed beans will yield 
defective low quality parchment.
 The pulping and washing machineries and other equipments used in the preparation of 
parchment coffee should be cleaned on daily basis. No fruits, fruit skins or beans from 
the previous day’s harvest should be allowed to remain and mix with fresh coffee 
fruits or pulped beans. These materials badly damage the parchment coffee quality. 
Only clean water shall be used for processing coffee fruits and all the extraneous 
matters such as leaves, twigs and stones should be thoroughly removed from the fruits 
before pulping. If adequate supply of water is not available, then the water used for 
pulping the fruits can be recycled to pulp the fruits second time. The pulped water 
however, should not be used on the second day. Further, pulped water should never be 
used for washing the coffee beans under any circumstances.
 As far as possible, harvested fruits have to be pulped on the same day of the harvest. 
If, it is not possible to process all the fruits on the same day, such fruits can be stored 
under clean water and pulped on the second day. The fruits stored for more than 10 
hours in the open heap without pulping will result in fruity cup. The fruit skins 
separated by pulping should be taken away from the pulping site as quickly as 
possible so that microbial decomposition of the skin does not affect the quality of 
parchment coffee.
                                            SORTING OF RIPE FRUITS
 The sticky mucilage on the pulped beans can be removed by 4 different 
methods. However, the commonly followed/adopted methods are two namely: (1) 
Natural Fermentation and (ii) : Aqua machine wash by friction.
 Superior quality coffee can be obtained by natural fermentation method. Fermentation 
is a critical stage in processing and has a deep influence on the quality of coffee. 
When pulped coffee is stored in fermentation tanks along with the mucilage, natural 
hydrolysis of pectins present in coffee mucilage occurs due to the enzymes naturally 
present in coffee mucilage. In Arabica coffee, natural fermentation will be complete 
6
7
 in about 24 to 36 hours. However, this may take longer time also when the ambient 
temperature is too low. The fermentation process should be controlled so that over 
fermentation is avoided. Over fermentation will result in foxy beans and make the 
coffee cup sourish. The under fermented coffee results in imparting mustiness in the 
cup. The correctness of fermentation can be checked by rubbing the fermenting beans 
with hand. The mucilage will come off easily and the parchment does not stick to the 
hand after wash. The beans feel rough and gritty when squeezed by hand and a feeling 
similar to squeezing pebbles is felt.   After the correct fermentation, the beans are 
cleanly washed 3 to 4 times in clean water or in a washing machine. The quality of the 
coffee can be further enhanced, if the washed beans are soaked under water for about 
4 to 6 hours.
 The parchment coffee prepared in such method initially contains around 50 – 
55% water content in them. The superficial   water content should be removed by 
spreading the parchment over wire mesh trays and then dried on clean cement or clay 
lined drying yards till the moisture content reaches a value of 11.0%. Generally 
parchment takes about 7 – 10 days for drying when spread at a thickness of 4 – 7 cm. 
If the parchment is spread too thin, rapid drying of coffee at this stage causes the 
parchment skin to split which lead to cracking of parchment, shrunken and boat 
shaped beans. Stirring and turning of parchment coffee at least once an hour is 
essential to facilitate uniform drying. The parchment should be heaped during the 
evening time and covered with polyethylene/tarpaulin sheets/gunny bags. Drying 
mass of parchment coffee should never be exposed to mist. Parchment coffee should 
not be exposed to the hottest sun between noon and early part of the afternoon 
especially on the 3rd and 4th day of drying. Exposing the parchment to the hottest sun 
during the 3rd and 4th day will result in wrinkled beans.  Once the coffee is dried to a 
recommended moisture level of 11.0%, the coffee has to be bagged in clean and dry 
gunny bags. Coffee of different lots should be bagged separately. New gunny bags 
should be always turned inside out well aerated before use as otherwise the coffee will 
absorb natural oils and off odours from the bag and give rise to an “acrid” 
(bitter/pungent/harsh) cup. If the gunny bags are procured from curing works, the 
bags should be properly fumigated or the curing works should be asked to fumigate 
and supply to avoid the spread of Coffee berry Borer infestation. Coffee should be 
stored in well ventilated and dry store rooms. The coffee should be stored on raised 
wooden platforms to ensure proper circulation of air underneath the bags. Parchment 
coffee and cherry coffees should not be stored one over the other. The fertilizers, 
chemicals, oils, insecticides and pesticides should not be stored in the coffee godown.
 DRYING PARCHMENT COFFEE
 (b): Preparation of Cherry coffee
 7
8
 To prepare cherry coffee, fruits should be picked as and when they are ripe. 
Greens and under ripe fruits should be sorted out and dried separately. All the 
extraneous matters like twigs and leaves should be separated from the fruits and dried. 
The fruits should be spread uniformly in the drying yards at a thickness of 7 – 8 cm. 
Clean cement or clay lined drying yards should be used for drying the cherry coffee. 
Use of cow dung smeared or mud drying yards should be avoided. Drying coffee in 
such yards causes mould formation in cherry coffee and quality of such coffees is 
very inferior. Coffee should be stirred and ridged at least once every hour to facilitate 
uniform drying. In the evening time cherry coffee should be heaped and covered with 
polythene or tarpaulin sheets to avoid contact with the mist. The coffee will be fully 
dry in about 10 -12 days under the bright weather conditions. Cherry coffee should be 
dried to a moisture level of 12 to 12.5%. The cherry is dry when handful of the drying 
cherry produces rattling sound when shaken and a sample forlit records the same 
weight on two consecutive days. At the end of the harvest, the remaining fruits on the 
plants should be completely stripped and fallen fruits should be gleaned cleanly. If 
this method of complete stripping and gleaning is not followed, there is a danger of 
Coffee Berry borer infestation during the coming years. Stripped and gleaned coffee 
should be dried separately and should not be mixed with other coffee.
 4. Coffee effluent management
 Letting out of untreated coffee effluent to natural water streams or to open lands is 
environmentally unsafe as it causes water and land pollution. Use of untreated coffee 
effluent for irrigation is also prohibited by the law. Since, coffee processing coincides 
with the dry season when amount of water present in the natural streams is at the 
minimum, causing further concern of higher degree of pollution.
 The coffee effluents emanating from the pulper units are highly acidic and contains 
high amounts of dissolved and suspended biodegradable organic matters. These 
effluents, if discharged into natural water bodies without treatment, pollute the 
receiving bodies by depleting dissolved oxygen present in it. Polluting natural water 
bodies will have an adverse effect on domestic users, aquatic life, livestock and water 
course down the stream. The pollution load of coffee effluent is measured in terms of 
Biological Oxygen Demand (BOD) and Chemical Oxygen demand (COD). 
Depending on the quantity of water used to process one unit of clean coffee (1 M.T), 
the BOD and COD amounts vary in the effluent. The amount of BOD range between 
8000 and 13,000 ppm and the COD levels will be around two times of the BOD 
present in the effluent. One should note that BOD levels will increase if pulped water 
is recycled during the processing.
 In order to protect the environmental health and to control the pollution on 
account of polluted water reaching the natural water bodies, agricultural land and 
open spaces, Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), Government of India has 
imposed certain laws and guidelines for handling effluents. These guidelines have to 
be followed mandatorily failing which the person is severely punishable under the 
law. As per the CPCB statute, the water to be used for irrigation should not contain 
more than 100 ppm of BOD and water to be discharged to natural water bodies should 
not contain more than 30 ppm of BOD.  Since, coffee effluent contains more than the 
stipulated levels of BOD and COD, it has to be treated by following recommended 
methods of treatment before use in the field or discharging it to the streams.
 8
9
 Steps to be followed in the treatment of Coffee Effluent
 • All the fruit skin shall be cleanly separated from the pulped water using 
suitable screens
 • The coffee effluent coming out of the washer unit should be stored in a lagoon 
for one day. The capacity of this lagoon shall be of one day’s water use 
capacity of the processing unit.
 • This effluent should be neutralized with appropriate amount of Agricultural 
lime so that the pH of the effluent is around 6.9 to 7.0. Generally 5 grams of 
good liming material is adequate to neutralize 0ne litre of the effluent.
 • After one day of storage, the effluent is allowed to the anaerobic lagoon. 
Before allowing the effluent to the lagoon, the anaerobic lagoon should be 
charged with 4% cow dung slurry up to 10% of the capacity of the lagoon. 
Charging of the anaerobic lagoon should be done one month before the 
pulping operation starts so that the methogenic bacteria present in the cow 
dung slurry which are responsible for the degradation of the biological 
materials get stabilized. The capacity of the anaerobic lagoon should be 
equivalent to 21 days effluent production with a maximum depth of 3 metres.
 • Add 4.5 kg of urea and 2.5 kg of super phosphate per every 20000 litres of 
effluent.
 • After 21 days, the effluent from anaerobic tank should be allowed to the 
aerobic tank. The depth of this lagoon should not be more than one metre and 
capacity should be of 7 days effluent production
 • In aerobic lagoon, addition of 450 g of urea and 250 g of super phosphate per 
20,000 litres of effluent is essential.
 • The effluent coming out of the aerobic lagoon be then stabilized in another 
tank for one day and used for irrigation if the BOD level is around 100 ppm.
 Preparation of cherry coffee is one of the ways of avoiding water pollution. The 
cherry coffee prepared from mature fruits which are carefully picked and sorted 
has better quality. Preparations of pulped natural coffee (as in Brazil) also 
contribute towards avoiding the production of coffee effluent. 
                          PLASTIC SHEET LINED LAGOONS
 9
10
        BIO-REACTOR TO TREAT COFFEE EFFLUENT
 5. Coffee Berry Borer Management
 All the recommended phyto sanitary methods have to be cleanly followed in the 
estate adopting cultural and mechanical operations.
 • Broca traps have to be installed in the estate as well as near the drying 
yards
 • Picking mats should be used during the harvesting. Use of picking mats 
facilitates the easy collection of fallen berries and avoids the berries 
coming into contact with the soils thereby preventing the possible mould 
formation.
 • All the left over berries on the plants and gleanings should be cleanly 
picked
 • If the berries are partially damaged by Coffee Berry Borer, such berries 
can be immersed in boiling water for 1 minute and then dried.
 • Highly damaged berries should be destroyed by burning
 • Coffee should be dried to the recommended moisture level.
 • Care should be taken not to transport coffee from the CBB infested area to 
the non-infested areas.
 • While procuring gunny bags from the coffee curing works, they should be 
properly fumigated to avoid the entry of CBB into your estate. The 
growers shall demand fumigation of gunny bags by the coffee curers. 
Always use clean and as far as possible new gunny bags.
                                                 COFFEE
 BERRY BORER
 10
11
 6. Dadap protection
 Protect the young dadap plants (during the first 2 years after planting) from 
scorching sun by treating (brushing or spraying) the stems with 10% lime solution 
(10.0 Kgs of spray lime in 100 litres of water).
 7. Weeding
 If the weeding is not done during October/November months, then weeding 
operation should be undertaken during December month using slash weeding. 
Generally during these months, weed growth is very poor due to lack of moisture 
in the soil. Avoid use of herbicides and weedicides or use them judiciously. This 
will help in maintaining the soil and environmental health from hazardous 
chemicals. 
8. Watering of young coffee plants
 After the cessation of monsoon, it is recommended that young coffee 
plants should be irrigated with 5 to 10 litres water per plant once in a week. This 
avoids the wilting and death of young plants and facilitates easy and faster rooting 
of the plants. The growth of watered plants will be better and plants grow 
healthily. When the moisture content of the soil comes down in watered plants 
area, again the plants need to be watered so that wilting of the plants can be 
prevented. It should be noted that weed germination is faster in the watered region 
and regularly they should be slash weeded. Water requirement is generally higher 
(evaporation rate is more) wherever, shade density is low and in such places 
mulching of young plants is necessary. 
9. Soil testing and liming of soils
 Liming of Soils
 In order to grow healthy coffee plants and to realize better crop, it is very 
important to protect primarily the soil health. The various plant nutrients in the soil 
need to be maintained in balance so that the soils remain productive for a long time. 
The acidity (pH) determines the productivity of the soil and nutrient 
assimilation/mineralization in the soil. In order to have better fertilize use efficiency 
of the applied fertilizers, the soil pH should be maintained at around 6.1 in coffee 
soils.  Due to the continuous application of acid causing fertilizers like ammonium 
sulphate, ammonium chloride and DAP and due to the leaching of calcium and 
magnesium elements in the soil, the soils tend to become acidic. Therefore, to monitor 
the soil pH, soils have to be tested compulsorily once in 2-3 years. When the soil pH 
11
12
 goes above 6.2 or comes below 6.1, the soil pH needs to be corrected because the 
availability of essential plant nutrients depends on the soil pH. Strongly acidic soils 
(pH below 4.5) are relatively poor in productivity because of essential plant nutrient 
deficiencies or toxicities of essential or non essential elements. Highly acidic soils are 
harmful for the useful soil micro-organism and in such soils coffee plant growth is 
always tend to be stunted in nature. If the soils are alkaline (above pH 7.0), most of 
the essential plant nutrients are not available to the plants.
 Whenever, the coffee soil pH falls below 6.1, the soil pH should be corrected by 
the application of alkali forming soil amendments like agricultural lime(Calcium 
Carbonate), dolomite ( Calcium and Magnesium Carbonates). Liming of the coffee 
soils can be done anytime of the year except during monsoon period. However, 
keeping in mind the coffee zones, it is known that November to February months are 
the ideal period for lime application. One should take care that adequate moisture is 
present in the soil for the best use of applied lime. Liming materials has to be 
uniformly broadcasted in the field. Finer the liming material, higher will be its 
efficiency and the soil pH gets corrected faster. Liming of the soil should be done 
only after soil test and the quantity of the liming material accordingly decided.
 If the recommended dose of liming material is more than 3.5 metric tonnes per 
hectare, in such case the dose has to be split into two equal parts and applied in 2 
years. The scientific use of lime on acid soils can appreciably improve the soil 
productivity and the plant uptake of nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium and micro 
nutrients. In the case of soil pH going beyond 6.2, then pH can be corrected by the 
application of acid forming fertilizers. It is recommended that each lime samples 
should be tested for purity before use in the field. This will help in deciding the 
correct quantity of the procured lime to be applied in the field based on its purity.
 Soil Sampling 
It is important that the soil samples collected should be the representative of the field 
to be tested. The important procedure to be followed for the best sample collection is 
as follows.
 • The field has to be divided into blocks of 2 hectares each. Sample each block 
separately. 
• When the areas within the field differ distinctly in growth of plants or 
appearance of the soils or known to have been treated differently, soil 
samples in such blocks should be collected and labelled separately.
 • Do not collect the sample during rainy season. Do not send the soil samples 
for analysis which are collected long back and stored.
 • Select at random 20 spots in each block, remove surface litter and dig a hole 
of 9 inches diameter using a suitable tool up to 9 inches depth. Scratch the 
soil samples uniformly round the hole from top to bottom and collect 1 kg of 
the sample and mix well to get the composite sample..
 • Samples should not be collected from the blocks which are recently limed or 
fertilized. Do not collect samples from road side, old bunds, and marshy 
places or near the shade trees. Collect soil samples at the centre of   4 coffee 
plants.
 • Dry the samples under shade and pack in a polyethylene bags or cotton bags 
and send to the laboratory properly labelled. Do not use fertilizer 
contaminated bags.
 12
13
 • Give the details of the estate, crop harvested for the last 5 years, elevation, 
rainfall details, irrigation schedules if any, variety of coffee and age of the 
bushes. 
CULTURAL OPERATIONS TO BE CARRIED OUT DURING
 FEBRUARY-MARCH MONTHS
 1. Fire path
 2. Stripping of the crop
 3. Gleaning
 4. Leaf analysis
 5. Pre-blossom Bordeaux Mixture Spray
 6. White Stem Borer Management
 7. Compost preparation
 8. Pruning
 9. Basket nursery
 1. Fire path
 ********
 During the summer period there is a chance of wild forest fire occurring in the 
nearby forest or in the vicinity of the coffee estate. Hence as a precaution, fire paths 
have to be created round the estate by clearing all the dried leaves, dead tree remains, 
branches etc in order to avoid the fire spreading to the estate. 
2. Stripping of the crop
 At the end of harvest, the berries remaining on the coffee plants have to be 
stripped off completely. This operation should be done carefully without harming or 
damaging the plant branches or new flower bud bearing branches. If the new shoots 
and branches are damaged, it will affect the next year crop. The one of the advantages 
of complete harvest is to reduce and avoid berry borer infestation during the coming 
years. Stripped berries should be dried separately and should not be mixed with other 
coffee as the quality of such coffee is inferior.
 3. Gleaning
 During the harvest some amounts of berries fall on the ground. At the end of 
complete harvest and stripping, such fallen berries should be collected neatly and 
completely. They should be dried separately and should not be mixed with other 
coffee. Coffee obtained from gleanings will have earthy taste and possibility of mould 
contamination is likely in such coffees. By neat gleaning, infestation of CBB can be 
avoided.
 13
14
 4.  Leaf analysis
 Coffee leaf analysis offers another type of approach in determining the nutrient 
availability of a soil and actual nutrient status in the plant itself. In order to determine 
the exact nutrient status in coffee plant, leaf analysis is very essential and a useful 
tool. The status of nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium, calcium, magnesium, sulphur and 
other micro-nutrients can be exactly determined by chemical analysis of the leaves 
and deficiency of any of the essential nutrient element can be identified to take 
appropriate step in time before it becomes a limiting factor in productivity of the 
plant. Simultaneous analysis of soil and complimentary leaf samples gives precise 
requirement of nutrients and helps in enhancing the accuracy of fertilizer 
recommendation services since these analyses are complimentary to each other.
 The leaf analysis can be done ideally during February-March and September
November months. Fourth pair of leaves from growing tip of Arabica plant branches 
from the 2/3 height of the over all plant has to be collected randomly from the field. A 
minimum of 25 pairs of leaves from one hectare land is necessary for precise analysis. 
The leaf samples should be collected only during the morning time preferably before 
10.00 a.m and placed between two sheets of blotting paper and packed in a perforated 
polythene bags and sent to the laboratory immediately. The details on the block 
history, age of the plant, fertilizers applied and crop harvested should be sent to the 
laboratory while sending the leaf samples. These samples are then washed with clean 
water and dilute hydrochloric acid to remove any superficial chemicals, dust and 
spray particles adhering to the leaf surfaces before processing for chemical analysis. 
5. Pre-blossom Bordeaux mixture Spray
 Humid cool weather with wind during May to November months, intermittent 
showers and sun shine, dry weather during December to March  with cloudy weather 
(with mist) and drizzling during February-March months are very favourable to the 
early appearance of coffee leaf rust disease in plants. Thin or no overhead shade 
during the south-west monsoon is also one of the favourable factors for the 
development of this disease. In some places, the build up of CLR disease can be seen 
during February-March months itself.  Generally during February-March months 
coffee leaf rust disease will be in its inactivity phase but under favourable conditions 
and in the places where very thin shades exist, then this disease can be seen during 
February-March months itself. In such areas, the plants have to be sprayed with 0.5% 
Bordeaux mixture (please see the Annexure for the preparation of Bordeaux mixture) 
or systemic fungicides (Contaf or Bayleton). This spray will prevent the disease 
spreading from the older leaves to the new leaves. The areas which are located in 
elevations more than 3500 feet are generally not affected by leaf rust disease during 
these months. While using the systemic fungicides, care should be taken to see that 
banned chemicals are not used for spray (see the Annexure).
 14
15
                         COFFEE LEAF RUST SYMPTOMS
 6.  White Stem Borer Management
 Coffee White Stem Borer (WSB) beetles attain their adulthood during April 
May and October-December period and emerge out in large numbers. But when the 
environmental conditions are very favourable, then these beetles can emerge out from 
the plants throughout the year except during the monsoon. Adults are very active in 
bright day light.  The beetles which emerge out during March-May months, lay eggs 
on the crevices of the plant bark which hatch and attain adulthood during next 
October-December months and emerge. The beetles which emerge during October
December will lay eggs and 15-20% of it will attain adulthood and emerge during 
next April –May months itself. The rest of the population (80-85%) from these 
progeny will emerge only during next October-December period. Hence, timely 
control measures are very critical in managing these insects. Any laxity in timely 
measures will result in greater damage to the plants and in turn the production.
 Variations in climatic conditions like very low rainfall, very low moisture, improper 
shade, highly defoliated plants due to defoliation caused by leaf rust, exhaustion of 
plants due to high crop and improperly  nutrient supplied plants will be the first 
casualty and more susceptible and amenable for WSB attack. Generally one of the 
broods of WSB beetles achieves adulthood during February-March. But, if the 
environmental conditions are favourable like increased temperature and sudden drop 
in the moisture content of the coffee plant stem, these beetles are capable of 
completing their life cycle early. If the outside temperature is above 350C but cloudy, 
the beetles will not emerge even if they are ready for flight. But, if it rains followed 
by bright sun shine after sometimes, these beetles will emerge immediately. Therefore 
the early emergence of WSB during February cannot be ruled out. Hence, one should 
take proper control measures should be initiated during February month itself if such 
favourable conditions prevail in the region.
 As a first step, plants infested with borer should be traced, uprooted and 
immediately destroyed by burning or be immersed under water for a week. If the 
borer has not reached the root region of the plant, such plants can be collar pruned at 9 
to 12 inches from the ground level (cut should face east direction) and suckers be 
allowed. The plants should not be collar pruned above one foot height as there is a 
15
16
                                  COFFEE WHITE STEM BORER
 danger of again WSB attacking such cut stems and also such cut stems may dry up 
and die.
 During these months shade regulation or timber extraction is not a good practice. The 
centring of the plants should not be taken up during this period. If the plant stems are 
smoothened during September months, such stems need to be further smoothened and 
while smoothening care should be taken to see that green part of the stems are not 
damaged. The smoothened stems are then given 10% lime wash (10 kg spray lime + 
100ml Fevicol DDL in 100 litres of water). 
In order to know the untimely emergence of beetles, small number of 
pheromone traps can be installed in the field in strategic places. WSB pheromone 
traps (25 traps per hectare) have to be installed in highly infested areas. 
7.  Compost preparation
 Composting is a process wherein larger particles of biodegradable materials are 
broken down into smaller ones by the action of soil micro and macro organisms.In 
coffee estates lot of coffee and shade tree leaf litter, plant prunings, weeded materials, 
other green plants, coffee pulp, coffee skin, cherry or parchment husks and other bio
degradable waste materials are available. These materials have good plant nutrient 
values and there is a large potential for exploitation of the manurial values of these 
materials. They form good source for the preparation of compost in the estates. These 
materials can be mixed with coir pith, cow dung and other domestic wastes for 
increasing the manurial value of the compost. However, the quantity of compost 
prepared in the estates depends on the quantity of the raw materials available on site. 
The coffee effluent obtained during the course of pulping and washing can be used to 
prepare the compost especially for moistening the compost heaps. The coffee skin 
obtained during the pulping of coffee be mixed with farm yard manure and other 
domestic wastes and can be converted into good vermin compost using  different 
strains of earth worms which are available in the Agricultural Universities.
 8.  Pruning
 After the receipt of one or two summer showers, coffee plants start producing 
new shoots. This is the right time for pruning. Pruning essentially a thinning 
process to direct the vigour of the plants into those parts which produce crops. 
Pruning is to remove the unproductive wood for encouraging the growth of new 
branches which would become next years cropping wood. Pruning facilitates the 
entry of adequate sun light and air to all parts of the bushes thereby reducing the 
16
17
 incidence of pest and diseases and helps maintaining the frame work of the plants 
in desired shape.
 In some plantations, there is a practice of pruning the coffee plants 
immediately after the harvest. But pruning operation should not be started until 
one or two summer showers (minimum of 2 inches of rain) are received. If 
sufficient moisture is present in the soil after the harvest, then pruning can be done 
immediately.  The plants generally under stress due to mechanical injuries caused 
during the harvest. Under this condition if pruning is done in the absence of soil 
moisture, the plants suffer further stress because of the pruning operation resulting 
in poor future development of cropping woods. However, pruning can be done 
immediately after the harvest whenever the plantations are situated above 3500 
feet as in these elevations the weather will be cool. Precaution should be taken not 
to prune deeply exhausted or diseased or die –back affected plants until sufficient 
rain is received as indicated above.  It is recommended to practice only light 
pruning involving removal of old unproductive wood, criss-cross branches, 
branches touching ground, lean, lanky and whippy wood and pest and disease 
affected branches as well as branches growing towards main stem and ground.  
9. Basket nursery
 For basket nursery one should use the polythene bags of the dimension 6 X 9 
(b X h) inches of 150 gauges. If lower gauge bags are used, there is a chance that 
the bags may break when soil is filled. Use of lower dimension backs severely 
hinders the healthy development of roots. Further, 12 uniform holes (3 mm) at 
equidistance should be made on the nursery bags to facilitate easy air circulation 
for the growing seedlings as well as to allow the excess water to flow out. 
Stagnation of water in the bags results in the rotting of seedlings. 
A  nursery mixture of 6 parts of sieved jungle soil( free from nematodes and 
other pests), two parts of well rotted cattle manure or compost and one part of 
coarse river sand (do not use sea sand as it contains sodium which is harmful to 
the seedlings) should be prepared and mixed well to fill the nursery bags. If the 
jungle soils are not available, it can be substituted with sieved surface soil mixed 
with compost or vermin compost. Prior to planting, the nursery bags should be 
gently watered and a vertical hole of about 5 cm deep should be made in the soil 
at the centre of the bags. The coffee seedlings at button stage are transplanted into 
the nursery bags. Seedlings should not be planted deep in the nursery bags and 
after planting, the seedlings should be watered daily in the morning times. Nursery 
should be cleaned off from weeds and other plants regularly. Provide overhead 
pendal shade till the commencement of regular monsoon. 
There is a possibility of Cercospora (Brown-eye- spot) disease infecting the 
tender leaves of the seedlings in the nursery. To prevent the disease, spray 
Indofil -M-45 solutions (5 g/1 litre of water) or Bavistin (1g/litre)
 Now a days, another fungal disease is also seen in the nursery this is caused by 
a fungus called Myrothecium roridum. In the case of attack the nursery plants 
show infection of the stem portion and leaves. The symptoms observed are water 
soaked brown to greyish white discolouration followed by defoliation of the 
leaves and death of the seedlings. To prevent and cure this disease, spray 0.8ml of 
Tilt (propiconazole) in one litre of water. This spray should be done once in a 
month till the end of the monsoon. In case of earthworm problem in the nursery 
and nursery baskets, this can be prevented by pouring soap nut solution. The 
17
18
 solution can be prepared by finely crushing fresh soap nuts and squeezing them in 
water.  
Before transplanting the seedlings in the field, remove and destroy all the 
suspicious, stunted and disease affected seedlings from the nursery and plant only 
vigorous and healthy seedlings to avoid any future problems in the field. 
                                 COFFEE SEEDLINGS IN NURSERY BAGS
 18
19
 CULTURAL OPERATIONS TO BE CARRIED OUT DURING
 APRIL-MAY MONTHS
 1. Line Marking for planting 
2. Pitting
 3. White Stem Borer Management
 4. Pruning
 5. Pre-monsoon Manuring
 6. Pre-monsoon Bordeaux mixture spray
 7. Shade lopping
 8.  Cradle pit/ water catch pit renovation
 9.  Weeding
 10. Sucking pest (green mealy bug) management
 ********
 1. Line Marking for planting
 While choosing the site for coffee planting due consideration should be given to 
elevation, slope, aspect, soil type, rainfall, wind speed, shade trees, availability of 
perennial water source and transport facilities. North, East and North-East aspects are 
suitable for growing coffee. Western aspect is not suitable because plants suffer from 
scorching sun. If one wants establish plantations in lands facing Western aspect, then 
proper thick shade cover has to be provided to protect plants from direct sunlight. 
Before new planting, shade trees have to be planted in adequate numbers in advance 
to give protection to the young plants. If already the land is covered with trees, then 
while regulating the plant density, selective retention of desired species should be 
done.
 The planting land should be divided into blocks of convenient size with proper 
foot paths and roads for transportation laid out in between. Dadap plants have to be 
planted in the blocks at a distance of 20 feet apart during June month to provide 
temporary lower canopy shade.  Within each block, the points for planting coffee 
seedlings should be located by marking the distance between the rows and plant 
distance. The following are the optimum spacing for different coffee cultivars:
 (a)
     Arabica Talls  -  7 X 7, 7 X 6 or 6 X 6 feet
 (b)   Arabica Dwarf/Semi Dwarf –  5 X 5 feet
 Intensive cultivation is required when closer planting system is required. Once the 
land is marked, the soils from each block have to be tested and required amount of 
agricultural lime should be applied to correct the soil pH for the optimum growth of 
the plants. In steep slopes it is suggested to adopt contour planting so that soil erosion 
can be prevented and this method also helps in easy operation of the cultural 
practices. Square system should be adopted in gentle or flat lands.
 19
20
 2. Pitting
 Pits for coffee planting are to be opened after few summer showers during 
March month. If, summer showers are delayed, this work can be deferred till the 
showers are received. The pits measuring 1.5 X 1.5 X 1.5 feet length, breadth and 
depth are ideal for planting. After opening, pits are to be exposed for weathering for 
15 – 20 days. Later, add 1.0 – 1.5 kgs of compost/farm yard manure and 50-100 gms 
of rock phosphate in each pit and close the pits by filling in with the surrounding top 
soil. A small bamboo stick or wooden pole can be inserted at the centre of the pit for 
identification.
 3. White Stem Borer Management
 All the control measures adopted during the month of February-March months 
should be continued. Generally the incidence of white stem borer will be on the 
higher side wherever the shade is less and also wherever silver oak shade trees are 
more. In order to minimize the incidence of WSB, optimum shade has to be 
maintained/ created; this will help in the healthy growth of the plants also. There is a 
practice of shade regulation during the month of April in some coffee areas. If 
adequate blossom and backing showers are not received in time and even during 
April, then shade regulation work has to be postponed till sufficient moisture builds 
up in the soil. This will help in maintaining cool atmosphere in the coffee estates and 
brings down the activities of WSB. Borer infested plants have to be thoroughly traced, 
uprooted and burnt. The main stem and thick primaries of the plants have to be 
smoothened with coir gloves and smeared with 10% lime solution. Install 25 
pheromone traps per hectare if the incidence level is high. Remember, retention of 
borer infested plants results in greater damage and economic loss during the coming 
years compared to retaining them for a meagre profit expected during the current year.
 4. Pruning
 When one or two summer showers are received, coffee plants start 
producing new shoots. This is the right time for pruning. Pruning essentially a 
thinning process to direct the vigour of the plants into those parts which produce 
crops. Pruning is to remove the unproductive wood for encouraging the growth of 
new branches which would become next years cropping wood. Pruning facilitates 
the entry of adequate sun light and air to all parts of the bushes thereby reducing 
the incidence of pest and diseases and helps maintaining the frame work of the 
plants in desired shape.
 In some plantations, there is a practice of pruning the coffee plants 
immediately after the harvest. But pruning operation should not be started until 
one or two summer showers (minimum of 2 inches of rain) are received. If 
sufficient moisture is present in the soil after the harvest, then pruning can be done 
immediately.  The plants generally under stress due to mechanical injuries caused 
during the harvest. Under this condition if pruning is done in the absence of soil 
moisture, the plants suffer further stress because of the pruning operation resulting 
in poor future development of cropping woods. However, pruning can be done 
immediately after the harvest whenever the plantations are situated above 3500 
feet as in these elevations the weather will be cool. Precaution should be taken not 
to prune deeply exhausted or diseased or die –back affected plants until sufficient 
rain is received as indicated above.  It is recommended to practice only light 
20
21
 pruning involving removal of old unproductive wood, criss-cross branches, 
branches touching ground, lean, lanky and whippy wood and pest and disease 
affected branches as well as branches growing towards main stem and ground.  
5. Pre-monsoon Manuring
 After the harvest and pruning, coffee plants will be generally in an exhausted 
and weak condition. Once the summer shower is received, we can see immediate 
growth activities in the plants and they start to produce new shoots. During this phase, 
it is essential to supply plant nutrients in required quantities through soil application 
of fertilizers.
 In every coffee estate, the grown up plants need 50:50:50 kgs of nitrogen, 
phosphorus and potash per hectare for their vegetative growth. This is called 
sustenance nutrient dose which has to be given compulsorily to keep the plant health 
in good condition. The sustenance dose of fertilizer does not depend on the level of 
crop harvested or in the bearing but needed for the proper growth of roots, stem and 
vegetative parts.
 The remaining quantity of annual fertilizer requirement of coffee plants are 
calculated based on the age and health of the plants, soil test values and crop level as 
well as the average crop harvested during the last five years. Therefore it is essential 
that the soils have to be tested for their fertility status routinely in order to avoid under 
or over fertilization in the field. The calculated amounts of fertilizers need to be 
applied in 2 to 3 splits. One of the split doses of fertilizer has to be given during the 
pre-monsoon period i.e. after receiving sufficient amounts of summer shower.
 Before the application of pre-monsoon fertilizers, the plants should be relieved 
of their unproductive and undesired growths (pruning) and should complete weeding 
operation. Based on the recommended levels of fertilizers and area to be fertilized, 
suitable quantity of fertilizers should be uniformly mixed and applied in the field.
 The maximum fertilizer use efficiency will be obtained when they are placed 
around the plant instead of broadcasting. Therefore, all the mulch shall be cleared 
around the plant up to the plant canopy area leaving one foot distance from the main 
stem. The soil in this area is then slightly disturbed using the forks and fertilizers 
should be uniformly applied in this area. After the application, the soil has to be 
reworked so that all the fertilizer particles are well covered and finally re-mulch the 
soil with the previously cleared mulch. One should note that a single split dose of 
fertilizer should not exceed 100:75:100 kgs of N: P: K per hectare. If larger quantity 
of fertilizers is given in a single split there is a high chance of loss of nutrients due to 
volatilization. In highly productive blocks, the number of split doses will be more 
than 3-4 splits. The plants during the blossom/after blossom and pre-monsoon period 
essentially require phosphorus nutrient and hence, one should not skip phosphorus 
application during this period. It is advised that all the farm wastes like fruit skin, 
mucilage and cherry or parchment husks shall be composted in the estate and recycled 
in the farm.
 6. Pre-monsoon Bordeaux mixture spray
 April and May are the most crucial months for the spreading of coffee leaf rust 
disease from the older leaves to the young tissues. During this period, because of 
shade regulations in estates, generally the shade will be thin which helps the faster 
spreading of the disease. Therefore during this period, spray of 0.5% Bordeaux 
mixture is very important which prevents the spread of disease and protects the young 
leaves. Freshly prepared Bordeaux mixture has to be sprayed on the lower surface of 
21
22
 the leaves. Spraying the Bordeaux on the upper surface of the leaves does not ensure 
protection from the spread of the disease. About 15 barrels of the spray mixture 
adequately covers one hectare of the area. The protection measures shall be completed 
by first week of June every year. Please ensure that the pH of the Bordeaux mixture is 
maintained between 9 and 10 for the best efficiency of the sprayed mixture. Do not 
mix any fertilizers (except potash), micro nutrients, insecticides, pesticides or plant 
growth hormones in the Bordeaux mixture as these ingredients are bound to decrease 
the efficiency of the B.mixture. However, 350 gm of    MOP can be added to one 
barrel of the mixture as potassium is compatible with Bordeaux mixture. There is a 
common practice of adding urea to the Bordeaux mixture. This is a bad practice 
which should be avoided. Mixing of urea in the mixture leads to the loss of nitrogen 
in the form of ammonia as well as results in lower efficiency of the spray solution. 
Black rot affected patches should be sprayed with 1.0 % Bordeaux mixture during the 
first week of June. 
I case of delayed blossom shower (May 2nd to 3rd week), we can not see the growth of 
new shoots in the plants and hence spraying of Bordeaux mixture under this condition 
should be avoided. In such an event, spray of 7-8 barrels per hectare systemic 
fungicides (160 gm of 25 WP 0.02% Bayleton or 400 ml of Contaf-5EC-0.01% in 200 
litres of water) during the break in the monsoon which will help in controlling the 
CLR disease. 
7. Shade lopping
 Coffee requires optimum filtered shade for its best performance under Indian 
conditions. Therefore it is essential to regulate the shade trees regularly in order to 
provide required light intensity to the coffee plants. Generally May is the ideal month 
for shade regulation. Shade regulation should not be undertaken if dry weather and 
lack of moisture in the soil prevails in the field. Shade regulation under this condition 
further increases the soil moisture loss leading to wilting of plants and decreased new 
shoot formation which will adversely affects the next year crop. The white stem borer 
activities can also increase leading to higher infestation on coffee plants. Therefore, 
shade regulation shall be done preferably only after receiving 4-5 inches of rainfall. 
Meticulously and properly regulated shade helps in minimizing the biennial bearing 
habits of coffee plants, avoids die-back and wilting of plants. All the drooping 
branches of shade trees at a height of 9-12 metres above the coffee plants should be 
removed so that filtered light penetrates into the ground.
 Similarly, the lower tier shade (dadap) should also be regulated. As soon as 
monsoon sets in, the branches of all the dadap plants should be removed. The lopped 
small branches shall be finely chopped and all the leaf compliments obtained during 
the shade regulations shall be spread all over the ground and allowed for rotting. After 
the monsoon, dadap plants needs to be regulated depending on the growth of dadap 
plants. The dadap stakes can be used for planting in other areas. 
8.  Cradle pit/ water catch pit renovation
 In slopy areas, the cradle pits are generally opened during October-November 
months. These pits get filled during the north-east and S-W monsoon period and 
hence needs renovation once in 2-3 years. All the deposits like washed soil, leaf litter, 
weed bio-mass and tree debris shall be removed from these pits and spread near the 
22
23
 surrounding plants.  April-May months are the ideal period for the renovation of these 
pits. Similarly, before the onset of the monsoon all the drainage channels should be 
cleaned and connected to the main catch pits. If these channels are not renovated, 
water will stagnate in these channels and pits which causes damage to the coffee plant 
roots due to chilling effect causing wet feet disorder in plants. Wet feet disorder 
causes defoliation in plants. In water logging areas (flat areas), drainage channels of 
1.5 feet breadth and 1 foot deep should be opened up at suitable distances between the 
rows to drain out excess water from the field. These drainage channels should be 
connected to the water catch pits opened at the end of the field. Proper drainage 
system provided in the coffee fields helps in improving the soil structure, root 
respiration and development. Collecting excess water in catch pits increases the water 
table in the ground. 
9.  Weeding
 The weeds shall be cleanly slashed before the start of monsoon. Slashed weeds 
shall be spread uniformly in the field.
 10. Sucking pest (green mealy bug) management
 Green mealy bug is one of the most important sucking pests of coffee. Various 
types of ants especially red ant and cocktailed ants are responsible for the spread of 
these small soft bodied insects from one place to other. Hence control of these ants is 
important in mealybug management in the coffee fields. Therefore, control ants by 
dusting 5% Malathion powder around the base of affected coffee plants and shade 
trees. Destroy nests of red ants and cocktailed ants. The infested plants should be 
sprayed with Ekalux 25 EC (120ml) or Metacid 50 EC (120 ml) dissolved in 200 
litres of water with 200 ml of any agricultural wetting agent using a gator sprayer. 
Four litres of kerosene emulsified with 200 litres of water and 200 ml of wetting agent 
can also be used for spraying. 
23
24
 CULTURAL OPERATIONS TO BE CARRIED OUT DURING
 JUNE-JULY MONTHS
 1. DADAP PLANTING
 2. SHADE TREE PLANTING
 3. COFFEE PLANTING
 4. HANDLING AND CENTRING
 5. BLACK ROT MANAGEMENT
 6. WEEDING
 7. NURSERY 
1. Dadap planting.
                                                             *********
 Temporary shade i.e. lower canopy shade (Dadap) is very important for coffee 
during the drought period. These shade trees protect the coffee plants from bright sun 
shine during the summer heat. It is very essential to provide adequate shade to coffee 
plants during summer period by proper maintenance of both temporary and permanent 
shade trees. Dadap plants are grown to provide lower tier shade to coffee plants in 
coffee estates. The dadap stakes should be planted in the coffee fields during June
July months as sufficient moisture is present in the soil during these months which 
helps in early rooting of the stakes. However, in marginal areas where soil is gravel 
and soil moisture is deficient, the dadap plants do not root easily. In such cases, after 
planting dadap plants, the planting pits have to be treated with 1-2 litres of hormonal 
solution (1 ml of hormonal in 1 lit of water) which helps in early rooting of dadap 
plants. Use dadap stakes of 1-1.5 metre height and a minimum of 5-6 cm girth for 
planting. After one month of planting apply 25 gm of super phosphate to each plant 
for better development of roots and growth of the dadap plants.
 2. SHADE TREE PLANTING
 June-July months are ideal for planting shade trees. It is always better to have 
mixed shade trees rather than having mono shade like silver. Planting only silver oak 
trees does not ensure filtered shade. The temperature of the field is generally higher in 
the estates where silver oaks are planted as shade trees. Further, the silver oak leaf 
litter does not degrade as quickly as   other leaves. The black rot disease and white 
stem borer incidence are more prevalent in estates with silver oak as shade tree. 
Therefore, it recommended that in coffee estates more of other shade trees have to be 
planted like Indian fig, atti, bili basari, mallegargatti, rose wood, jack, gandagarige 
and trees belonging to leguminous family. In high rainfall areas, the plants which shed 
leaves during the monsoon but quickly foliate after the monsoon have to be chosen. 
The trees like   Atti or Balanji belong to this category. Planting of trees like neeli in 
the estates should be avoided as these trees harbour caterpillars. Permanent shade 
trees should be planted at a distance of 12-15 metres. In wind prone areas, silver oak 
and silk cotton trees have to be planted densely round the boundary of the estate.
 24
25
 3. COFFEE PLANTING
 Undesired and suspicious coffee seedlings should be removed from the 
nursery and destroyed. Only healthy disease free and more vigorous seedlings of the 
desired variety should be selected from the nursery for planting in the field. Sixteen to 
eighteen months (root plants) old seedlings can be planted during June-July months in 
the planting pits opened earlier. At the time of planting, a hole should be made in the 
centre of the pit after levelling the soil and seedlings are planted in these holes. Add 5 
gms of thimmet or forate crystals to the pit before planting the seedlings to avoid 
cockchafer problems. 
The tap root and the lateral roots are to be spread out in proper position before 
packing with the soil. In the case of ball plants, the polythene bag is cut at the bottom 
and tip of the tap root is nipped if it is found bent. Care should be taken so that soil 
around the seedlings is packed slightly above the ground level (one inch) to prevent 
water stagnation around the collar region of the seedlings. Avoid deep planting. Care 
should be taken to see that the planting pits should not contain gravel or stones at the 
bottom so that formation of bent root can be prevented. The planted seedlings are then 
provided with cross-stakes to prevent wind damage and mulched with dry leaves.
 4. HANDLING AND CENTRING
 Pruned plants start producing more and more new shoots after the receipt of 
sufficient showers. This necessitates one or two rounds of handling once during June
July months and later during August-September. During the handling operation, the 
new flush arising after the main pruning is thinned out to a desired number (2 per 
node) of well spaced branches.
 Centring should be done by the removal of new shoots arising within half foot radius 
of the main stem. This facilitates good air circulation and penetration of light into all 
parts of the plant as well as prevents the black rot disease. Centering is a skilled work; 
too much opening of the centre of the plants may invite trouble from White Stem 
Borer. Desuckering has to be done by removing the suckers growing from the main 
stem. Gourmandizers should not be retained. There is a practice in some estates 
allowing the gourmandizers for many years. This practice should be discontinued as it 
spoils the plant frame work and all the lower branches will be affected in due course. 
All the criss-cross branches should also be removed. By removing all such undesired 
growth, the fertilizer use efficiency by the plants can be increased.
 5. BLACK ROT MANAGEMENT
 Continuous rain without a dry spell, saturated atmosphere with 80-100% 
relative humidity, breeze, thick overhead shade and hanging mist during the monsoon 
period causes the outbreak and spread of Black rot disease. This disease is more 
prevalent in valleys and in the estates with full of silver oak shade trees. The black rot 
pathogen infests leaves, developing berries and young shoots. Diseased leaves, berries 
and shoots turn black, start rotting and fall. On green berries the characteristic 
blackening starts from a side and spreads gradually in a narrow band. If this disease is 
not controlled, it is potential enough to cause 10-20% crop loss.
 In the areas prone to black rot disease, thinning of the overhead shade should be 
done before the onset of monsoon. Centering and handling of the bushes by removing 
criss-cross branches, dead and dry branches, suckers and dried fallen leaves of the 
shade trees on the canopy of coffee plants should be meticulously attended and 
25
26
 removed. As soon as the symptom of the disease is noticed, all the affected leaves and 
berries should be removed and destroyed. In affected areas spray 1% Bordeaux 
mixture on both the surfaces of leaves and to the developing berries just before the 
onset of monsoon and during the break in the monsoon. Affected areas can also be 
sprayed with Bavistin 50 WP @0.03% a.i (120 gms in 1 barrel of water) just before 
the monsoon and also during the break in the monsoon period. Do not spray Bavistin 
during the rain.
 6. WEEDING
 If the growth of the weeds is seen, slash weed them
 7. NURSERY 
 Remove the overhead pendal completely. Provide adequate drainage in the nursery so 
that rain water does not stagnate. All the weeds in the nursery has be cleared.
 26
27
 CULTURAL OPERATIONS TO BE CARRIED OUT DURING
 AUGUST-SEPTEMBER MONTHS
 1. Planting and Gap filling
 2. Mid monsoon manuring
 3. White Stem Borer Management
 4. Coffee Berry Borer Management
 5. Post monsoon Bordeaux mixture or Systemic fungicide Spray
 6. Post monsoon Manuring
 7. Indenting for Seed coffee
 *********
 1. Planting and Gap filling
 6-8 month old basket seedlings can be planted in the field. Please follow the 
method of planting (refer in June-July operations). Gap filling should be done with the 
same variety. Do not practice planting different varieties of coffee in the same block. 
Different varieties perform differently in the same block in terms of growth, quality 
and productivity. Therefore, planting different varieties in the same block will disturb 
the field uniformity as well as results in inconsistent cup quality. Further, the level of 
disease and pest resistance of different varieties is different from each other.
 Provide adequate protection to the plants from cattles and monkey menace. 
Protect the plants from cockchafer pest during the initial years of planting. Keep the 
weeds away from the new planting site as they compete for applied fertilizers with the 
coffee plants. Weeds are more efficient than coffee plants in absorbing applied 
nutrients and hence keep them away. Mulch every new coffee plant and provide them 
protection from wind by placing cross stakes. Wherever, shade protection is deficient, 
hutting should be done. 
2. Mid- monsoon manuring
 During the monsoon, nutrient nitrogen is lost very fast due to leaching. Plants 
need nitrogen during this period in order to produce more of shoots and branches. 
It is necessary to provide nitrogen to the plants to balance the nitrogen loss due to 
leaching. Therefore, apply 58 kgs of nitrogen (2.5 bags of Urea) per hectare 
during the break in the monsoon. This mid monsoon application of urea also helps 
in reducing the berry drop.
 3. White Stem Borer Management
 Borer infested plants should be properly traced, uprooted and destroyed by 
burning on the same day. Otherwise, the uprooted plants have to be immersed under 
water for 8-10 days. In case the borer has not reached the root system (at least 9 
inches above the ground), such plants can be collar pruned at a height of 9-12 inches 
from the ground and new suckers can be allowed. Do not store the uprooted infested 
plants. Storing of infested plants hastens the life cycle of the borer and they emerge 
faster than usual infesting healthy plants.
 During the September month after the cessation of rain, the coffee stems are 
soft and this is the right period for stem smoothening using coir gloves. Thick 
27
28
 branches of the plants should also be smoothened. Do not use sharp tools for 
smoothening the stems and branches. Care should be taken to see that the green parts 
of the stems are not damaged during this operation. Any damage caused to the green 
portion of the stems results in death of the plants as well as infestation by fungus 
causing stem canker disease. Egg laying activity of the borers can be avoided by 
proper smoothening of the stems. Apply 10% lime solution to the smoothened stems 
and branches.
                WHITE STEM BORER PHEROMONE TRAPS
 4. Coffee Berry Borer Management
 Coffee Berry Borer has to be controlled using Beauveria bassiana spray using 
bakpak sprayer.
 Method of preparation of   Beauveria bassiana culture 
In 375 ml glass bottle add 50 gm of rice and 50 ml of water. Plug the mouth of 
the bottle with cotton ball. Place these bottles in an aluminium container filled with 
water to a height of 50cm. Close the container with its lid and steam the bottles inside 
for about 20 minutes. Bottles are then cooled to the room temperature and inoculated 
with the Beauveria bassiana fungal culture. In about 3 weeks, the culture will be 
ready for use in the field. Immersion and thorough soaking of this culture in one litre 
of water with wetting agent gives the Beauveria bassiana fungal solution. This 
solution can be sprayed on the infested berries. This fungus is effective only when 
applied immediately after the cessation of monsoon when there is high humidity in 
the field. Spraying of the solution should be done before the hardening of the beans.
 5. Post monsoon Bordeaux mixture or Systemic fungicide Spray
 The coffee leaf rust disease intensifies during September month. In this period, 
pale yellow spots on the lower surface of leaves are seen and later these spots turn 
28
29
 orange yellow powdery mass. If the disease is not controlled at this stage, it intensifies 
further resulting in defoliation. If the leaf compliments in the plants are lost, then it 
effects the development and maturity of beans. Defoliation also exposes the plant 
stems and stem borer can easily attack the plants. As a control measure spray 0.5% 
Bordeaux mixture (15 barrels per hectare). The lower part of the leaves should be 
properly covered with the spray mixture.
 In case of heavy disease incidence, systemic fungicides have to be sprayed. In 
such an event, spray of 7-8 barrels per hectare systemic fungicides (160 gm of 25 WP 
0.02% Bayleton or 400 ml of Contaf-5EC-0.01% in 200 litres of water). Do not mix 
systemic fungicides in Bordeaux mixture. The effect of the systemic fungicides starts 
in about 2-3 weeks and lasts for nearly 2 months. If the rain does not stop during 
September, then this spray can be undertaken after the cessation of rain.
 6. Post monsoon Manuring
 Nitrogen is the most important plant nutrient and plants need it throughout the 
year. Nitrogen helps in the development of new shoots and berries. Nitrogen also 
helps in the production of large number of flowers and retention of leaves for a longer 
time. Adequately nitrogen supplied plants produce dense beans of higher quality. 
Potassium is another element which is essential for the fruit setting, bean filling, 
maturation and hardening of the beans. It improves the vigour and the pest and 
disease tolerance of the plants. Phosphorus is needed for the healthy and strong 
development of roots and shoots.
 After the monsoon, recommended doses of fertilizers have to be applied. Though the 
placement of fertilizers (pegging) is very efficient in terms of utilization, the process 
is laborious and time consuming. Therefore, simple method of application is 
suggested as under. Remove, the mulch under the plant canopy leaving one foot circle 
around the main stem. Slightly disturb the soil in the de-mulched area with forks. 
Broadcast fertilizer uniformly and evenly in this area and rework the soil. Cover again 
with the removed mulch. This method is very efficient and it avoids volatilization and 
washing away of nutrients. In steep areas, fertilizers can be applied in semi arch form 
on the upper side of the stem down the slope. 
7. Indenting for Seed coffee
 Seed coffee for the preparation of nursery should be procured only from the 
Central Coffee Research Institute and its other Sub and Regional stations and through 
Extension wing of the Board. Growers are advised to book their seeds by advance 
payment either at CCRI or with the extension offices not later than September.
 29
30
 CULTURAL OPERATIONS TO BE CARRIED OUT DURING
 OCTOBER-NOVEMBER MONTHS
 1.  Weed Control
 2.  Cleaning of pulper and Drying Yards
 3.  Arabica Coffee Harvesting
 4.  Coffee Processing
 (a) Arabica Parchment Preparation
 (b) Arabica Cherry Preparation
             5.  Seed Coffee Preparation
             6.  White Stem Borer Control
             7.  Soil Testing and Liming
             8.  Soil Digging (Cover digging)
             9.  Coffee Effluent Management
           10.  Opening of Cradle Pits
           11.  Hutting
                                                       ***********
 1. Weed Control
 Different types of weeds grow in coffee estates and they compete with coffee 
plants for moisture and mineral nutrients. If the weeds are allowed to grow during the 
late post-monsoon period, they use the soil moisture which coffee plants need in the 
following dry season. Free growth of weeds reduces the yield of coffee plants as well 
as their growth. Therefore, it very important to control the weeds in the field. In 
young plantations weeds are the major problems during the initial years. In new 
clearings, the weeds should be removed by slash weeding at least 3-4 times in a year. 
While in established fields, 2-3 times this operation has to be carried out. All the 
slashed weeds should be spread in the field during the rainy season for rotting and 
bio-degradation. Weeds which have the habit of flowering should be removed before 
they flower. After the monsoon, clean weeding should be done in the entire estate.
 In established plantations, recommended weedicides can also be used. But one 
should note that, the sprayers used for spraying weedicides should never be used for 
spraying any other chemicals without ensuring 100% cleaning. Use WFN 062 or 
WFN 040 flood jet nozzles for spraying weedicides. The use of weedicides should be 
judicious and as far as possible the use should be restricted to the most minimum level 
to avoid environmental contamination. Weedicides along with wetting agent should 
be applied on a bright sunny day when there is sufficient moisture. The soil moisture 
helps the faster absorption of the weedicides by the weeds.
 In the new clearing, the fields should be given a thorough cover digging to a 
depth of 9 inches towards the end of monsoon and all weeds, vegetative wastes and 
debris should be completely turned over and buried into the soil. In young clearings, 
coffee planted at normal spacing covers only a small portion of the ground and 
therefore weeds grow prolifically. In such spaces growing of green manure crops, 
cover crops, legumes, beans, pigeon peas, sweet potato and vegetables are 
recommended as these plants hinder the growth of weeds. The crop from these plants 
can either be harvested or these plants can be cut and incorporated in the soil again. In 
2-4 year old plantations, the soil has to be scuffled to a depth of 0.25 inches (7.5 cm) 
or cover crops have to be grown.
 30
31
 Recommended Weedicides
 Paraquat-di-chloride 24% EC @ 0.067% active ingredient (a.i.)
 For example dissolve 500 ml of Gramoxone in a barrel of water and spray.
                                       Or
 Glyphosate 41% EC @ 0.27% a.i.
 For example dissolve 1200 ml of Round up or Glycel in a barrel of water and spray.
 The cost and the quantity of the weedicides can be brought down by nearly 
50% by the addition of 2 kgs of Urea to the spray solution without affecting the 
efficiency of the spray solution. By adding 2 kgs of urea, the dosage of Gramoxon 
could be reduced to 250 ml while the quantity of Round up/Glycel could be reduced 
to 600 ml per barrel.
 2. Cleaning of pulper and Drying Yards
 Before the start of the coffee harvest, the equipments/tools used for coffee 
processing namely pulper, pulper yard, pulper vats, washer, coffee raker, fermentation 
tanks, siphon tank should be thoroughly cleaned. The pulper discs and choppers 
should be properly adjusted to the size of the fruits to prevent cuts. The weeds, soil 
and algal growth in the drying yards should be removed and washed with clean water 
before use. 
3.  Arabica Coffee Harvesting
 In order to maintain and protect the coffee beverage quality, aroma, thickness 
of the brew, taste and flavour as well as acidity in the cup, the right kind of coffee 
fruits have to be harvested in right time following certain suggested guidelines. 
Improper harvesting will result in spoiling the cup quality even if the coffee plants are 
known to belong to top quality category. Therefore, following the right kind of 
harvesting procedure will help in protecting the inherent quality as well as helps in 
getting premium prices.
 Coffee fruits have to be picked as and when they become ripe; this can be understood 
by gently squeezing the fruit with fingers. On gentle squeeze, the bean inside the fruit 
pops out easily. Under ripe or over ripe fruits should not be mixed or used for the 
preparation of parchment coffee as they can spoil the overall cup quality. The under 
ripe coffee fruits result in the production of immature beans and the over ripe ones 
cause foxy coffee resulting in brown beans with fruity cup. If the harvest is not 
possible as and when fruits rightly mature, the under ripe and over ripe fruits needs to 
be separated from the lot and only right kind of desired fruits have to be pulped in the 
course of preparation of parchment coffee. 
The under and over ripe fruits can be converted into cherry coffee. While 
harvesting the coffee, picking mats should be used, this helps in easy collection of 
fallen fruits and prevents the mould formation. Prevention of mould formation avoids 
the production of Ochra Toxin-A in coffee beans. Use of picking mats also reduces 
the Coffee Berry Borer infection. One should note that, clean gunny bags or plastic 
bags should be used for collecting the fruits during harvesting. These bags have to be 
regularly washed with clean water, dried and used for collecting the fruits. Bags used 
for storing chemicals, fertilizers, pesticides, insecticides and fungicides should never 
31
32
 be used for harvesting coffee fruits. No fruits should be allowed to remain in the 
plants after the end of season harvest as it can invite berry borer infestation. 
4. Coffee Processing
 (a): Preparation of Parchment coffee
 Parchment coffee or plantation coffee can be prepared by pulping, cleanly 
washed with water and dried under sun. Preparation of such coffee requires pulping 
equipments and adequate supply of clean water. The quality of parchment coffee is 
always superior to that of cherry coffee (whole fruit dried under sun). Cherry coffees 
always give fruity taste as the beans are in contact with the mucilage for a longer time 
during the course of drying period. Therefore, wet processing of coffee is essential to 
get superior quality coffee and the method can be followed wherever, all the adequate 
facilities like sufficient clean water and good processing machineries are available.
 The pulper, pulper tanks, siphon tanks, rakers, washer, fermentation tanks 
should be thoroughly cleaned before the pulping operation is undertaken. The 
premises of the pulper unit as well as the drying yards should be kept in hygienic way. 
The pulper unit should be properly adjusted depending on the fruit size and checked 
every day to prevent cuts. Pulper nipped and other deformed beans will yield 
defective low quality parchment.
 The pulping and washing machineries and other equipments used in the preparation of 
parchment coffee should be cleaned on daily basis. No fruits, fruit skins or beans from 
the previous day’s harvest should be allowed to remain and mix with fresh coffee 
fruits or pulped beans. These materials badly damage the parchment coffee quality. 
Only clean water shall be used for processing coffee fruits and all the extraneous 
matters such as leaves, twigs and stones should be thoroughly removed from the fruits 
before pulping. If adequate supply of water is not available, then the water used for 
pulping the fruits can be recycled to pulp the fruits second time. The pulped water 
however, should not be used on the second day. Further, pulped water should never be 
used for washing the coffee beans under any circumstances.
 As far as possible, harvested fruits have to be pulped on the same day of the harvest. 
If, it is not possible to process all the fruits on the same day, such fruits can be stored 
under clean water and pulped on the second day. The fruits stored for more than 10 
hours in the open heap without pulping will result in fruity cup. The fruit skins 
separated by pulping should be taken away from the pulping site as quickly as 
possible so that microbial decomposition of the skin does not affect the quality of 
parchment coffee.
 The sticky mucilage on the pulped beans can be removed by 4 different 
methods. However, the commonly followed/adopted methods are two namely: (1) 
Natural Fermentation and (ii) : Aqua machine wash by friction.
 Superior quality coffee can be obtained by natural fermentation method. Fermentation 
is a critical stage in processing and has a deep influence on the quality of coffee. 
When pulped coffee is stored in fermentation tanks along with the mucilage, natural 
hydrolysis of pectins present in coffee mucilage occurs due to the enzymes naturally 
present in coffee mucilage. In Arabica coffee, natural fermentation will be complete 
in about 24 to 36 hours. However, this may take longer time also when the ambient 
temperature is too low. The fermentation process should be controlled so that over 
32
33
 fermentation is avoided. Over fermentation will result in foxy beans and make the 
coffee cup sourish. The under fermented coffee results in imparting mustiness in the 
cup. The correctness of fermentation can be checked by rubbing the fermenting beans 
with hand. The mucilage will come off easily and the parchment does not stick to the 
hand after wash. The beans feel rough and gritty when squeezed by hand and a feeling 
similar to squeezing pebbles is felt.   After the correct fermentation, the beans are 
cleanly washed 3 to 4 times in clean water or in a washing machine. The quality of the 
coffee can be further enhanced, if the washed beans are soaked under water for about 
4 to 6 hours.
 The parchment coffee prepared in such method initially contains around 50 – 
55% water content in them. The superficial   water content should be removed by 
spreading the parchment over wire mesh trays and then dried on clean cement or clay 
lined drying yards till the moisture content reaches a value of 11.0%. Generally 
parchment takes about 7 – 10 days for drying when spread at a thickness of 4 – 7 cm. 
If the parchment is spread too thin, rapid drying of coffee at this stage causes the 
parchment skin to split which lead to cracking of parchment, shrunken and boat 
shaped beans. Stirring and turning of parchment coffee at least once an hour is 
essential to facilitate uniform drying. The parchment should be heaped during the 
evening time and covered with polyethylene/tarpaulin sheets/gunny bags. Drying 
mass of parchment coffee should never be exposed to mist. Parchment coffee should 
not be exposed to the hottest sun between noon and early part of the afternoon 
especially on the 3rd and 4th day of drying. Exposing the parchment to the hottest sun 
during the 3rd and 4th day will result in wrinkled beans.  Once the coffee is dried to a 
recommended moisture level of 11.0%, the coffee has to be bagged in clean and dry 
gunny bags. Coffee of different lots should be bagged separately. New gunny bags 
should be always turned inside out well aerated before use as otherwise the coffee will 
absorb natural oils and off odours from the bag and give rise to an “acrid” 
(bitter/pungent/harsh) cup. If the gunny bags are procured from curing works, the 
bags should be properly fumigated or the curing works should be asked to fumigate 
and supply to avoid the spread of Coffee berry Borer infestation. Coffee should be 
stored in well ventilated and dry store rooms. The coffee should be stored on raised 
wooden platforms to ensure proper circulation of air underneath the bags. Parchment 
coffee and cherry coffees should not be stored one over the other. The fertilizers, 
chemicals, oils, insecticides and pesticides should not be stored in the coffee godown.
 (b): Preparation of Cherry coffee
 To prepare cherry coffee, fruits should be picked as and when they are ripe. 
Greens and under ripe fruits should be sorted out and dried separately. All the 
extraneous matters like twigs and leaves should be separated from the fruits and dried. 
The fruits should be spread uniformly in the drying yards at a thickness of 7 – 8 cm. 
Clean cement or clay lined drying yards should be used for drying the cherry coffee. 
Use of cow dung smeared or mud drying yards should be avoided. Drying coffee in 
such yards causes mould formation in cherry coffee and quality of such coffees is 
very inferior. Coffee should be stirred and ridged at least once every hour to facilitate 
uniform drying. In the evening time cherry coffee should be heaped and covered with 
polythene or tarpaulin sheets to avoid contact with the mist. The coffee will be fully 
dry in about 10 -12 days under the bright weather conditions. Cherry coffee should be 
dried to a moisture level of 12 to 12.5%. The cherry is dry when handful of the drying 
33
34
 cherry produces rattling sound when shaken and a sample forlit records the same 
weight on two consecutive days. At the end of the harvest, the remaining fruits on the 
plants should be completely stripped and fallen fruits should be gleaned cleanly. If 
this method of complete stripping and gleaning is not followed, there is a danger of 
Coffee Berry borer infestation during the coming years. Stripped and gleaned coffee 
should be dried separately and should not be mixed with other coffee.
 5.  Seed Coffee Preparation
 Select the vigorous, highly productive, pest and disease free coffee plants for 
collecting the seed coffee.  While selecting the plants, only such plants which have 
not suffered from any diseases for a long time in the field should be selected. After 
selection of the plants, blossom should be forced on these plants by irrigation well 
before the general blossom shower. This will avoid any cross pollination from the 
undesired plants. From these plants select and harvest healthy ripen fruits. After the 
harvest, segregate floats and half ripe fruits and hand pulp the well matured fruits. The 
pulped beans are then mixed with sieved wood ash and dried slowly under shade in 5 
cm thickness. Seed coffee should not be prepared from Berry Borer affected areas. 
Before sowing, the seeds should be treated with Bavistin (Mix thoroughly 1 gm 
Bavistin 50 WP with one kg of seeds) to avoid any fungal attack. 
6. White Stem Borer Control
 Adopt all the control measures to manage the coffee White Stem borer as 
explained in earlier pages.
 7. Soil Testing and Liming
 In order to grow healthy coffee plants and to realize better crop, it is very 
important to protect primarily the soil health. The various plant nutrients in the soil 
need to be maintained in balance so that the soils remain productive for a long time. 
The acidity (pH) determines the productivity of the soil and nutrient 
assimilation/mineralization in the soil. In order to have better fertilize use efficiency 
of the applied fertilizers, the soil pH should be maintained at around 6.1 in coffee 
soils.  Due to the continuous application of acid causing fertilizers like ammonium 
sulphate, ammonium chloride and DAP and due to the leaching of calcium and 
magnesium elements in the soil, the soils tend to become acidic. Therefore, to monitor 
the soil pH, soils have to be tested compulsorily once in 2-3 years. When the soil pH 
goes above 6.2 or comes below 6.1, the soil pH needs to be corrected because the 
availability of essential plant nutrients depends on the soil pH. Strongly acidic soils 
(pH below 4.5) are relatively poor in productivity because of essential plant nutrient 
deficiencies or toxicities of essential or non essential elements. Highly acidic soils are 
harmful for the useful soil micro-organism and in such soils coffee plant growth is 
always tend to be stunted in nature. If the soils are alkaline (above pH 7.0), most of 
the essential plant nutrients are not available to the plants.
 Whenever, the coffee soil pH falls below 6.1, the soil pH should be corrected by 
the application of alkali forming soil amendments like agricultural lime(Calcium 
Carbonate), dolomite ( Calcium and Magnesium Carbonates). Liming of the coffee 
soils can be done anytime of the year except during monsoon period. However, 
keeping in mind the coffee zones, it is known that November to February months are 
the ideal period for lime application. One should take care that adequate moisture is 
present in the soil for the best use of applied lime. Liming materials has to be 
34
35
 uniformly broadcasted in the field. Finer the liming material, higher will be its 
efficiency and the soil pH gets corrected faster. Liming of the soil should be done 
only after soil test and the quantity of the liming material accordingly decided.
 If the recommended dose of liming material is more than 3.5 metric tonnes per 
hectare, in such case the dose has to be split into two equal parts and applied in 2 
years. The scientific use of lime on acid soils can appreciably improve the soil 
productivity and the plant uptake of nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium and micro 
nutrients. In the case of soil pH going beyond 6.2, then pH can be corrected by the 
application of acid forming fertilizers. It is recommended that each lime samples 
should be tested for purity before use in the field. This will help in deciding the 
correct quantity of the procured lime to be applied in the field based on its purity.
 Soil Sampling 
It is important that the soil samples collected should be the representative of the field 
to be tested. The important procedure to be followed for the best sample collection is 
as follows.
 • The field has to be divided into blocks of 2 hectares each. Sample each block 
separately. 
• When the areas within the field differ distinctly in growth of plants or 
appearance of the soils or known to have been treated differently, soil 
samples in such blocks should be collected and labelled separately.
 • Do not collect the sample during rainy season. Do not send the soil samples 
for analysis which are collected long back and stored.
 • Select at random 20 spots in each block, remove surface litter and dig a hole 
of 9 inches diameter using a suitable tool up to 9 inches depth. Scratch the 
soil samples uniformly round the hole from top to bottom and collect 1 kg of 
the sample and mix well to get the composite sample..
 • Samples should not be collected from the blocks which are recently limed or 
fertilized. Do not collect samples from road side, old bunds, and marshy 
places or near the shade trees. Collect soil samples at the centre of   4 coffee 
plants.
 • Dry the samples under shade and pack in a polyethylene bags or cotton bags 
and send to the laboratory properly labelled. Do not use fertilizer 
contaminated bags.
 • Give the details of the estate, crop harvested for the last 5 years, elevation, 
rainfall details, irrigation schedules if any, variety of coffee and age of the 
bushes. 
8. Soil Digging (Cover Digging)
 In new clearing the field should be given a thorough digging to a depth of 
15-18 inches towards the end of monsoon. All the weeds should be completely turned 
under and incorporated in the soil thoroughly. This operation shall be done only for 
two years after planting coffee. This will help in suppression of weed growth and 
conservation of soil moisture in new clearings. Avoid deep digging in steep slopes as 
it can lead to soil erosion.
 35
36
 9. Coffee Effluent Management
 Letting out of untreated coffee effluent to natural water streams or to open 
lands is environmentally unsafe as it causes water and land pollution. Use of untreated 
coffee effluent for irrigation is also prohibited by the law. Since, coffee processing 
coincides with the dry season when amount of water present in the natural streams is 
at the minimum, causing further concern of higher degree of pollution.
 The coffee effluents emanating from the pulper units are highly acidic and contains 
high amounts of dissolved and suspended biodegradable organic matters. These 
effluents, if discharged into natural water bodies without treatment, pollute the 
receiving bodies by depleting dissolved oxygen present in it. Polluting natural water 
bodies will have an adverse effect on domestic users, aquatic life, livestock and water 
course down the stream. The pollution load of coffee effluent is measured in terms of 
Biological Oxygen Demand (BOD) and Chemical Oxygen demand (COD). 
Depending on the quantity of water used to process one unit of clean coffee (1 M.T), 
the BOD and COD amounts vary in the effluent. The amount of BOD range between 
8000 and 13,000 ppm and the COD levels will be around two times of the BOD 
present in the effluent. One should note that BOD levels will increase if pulped water 
is recycled during the processing.
 In order to protect the environmental health and to control the pollution on 
account of polluted water reaching the natural water bodies, agricultural land and 
open spaces, Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), Government of India has 
imposed certain laws and guidelines for handling effluents. These guidelines have to 
be followed mandatorily failing which the person is severely punishable under the 
law. As per the CPCB statute, the water to be used for irrigation should not contain 
more than 100 ppm of BOD and water to be discharged to natural water bodies should 
not contain more than 30 ppm of BOD.  Since, coffee effluent contains more than the 
stipulated levels of BOD and COD, it has to be treated by following recommended 
methods of treatment before use in the field or discharging it to the streams.
 Steps to be followed in the treatment of Coffee Effluent
 • All the fruit skin shall be cleanly separated from the pulped water using 
suitable screens
 • The coffee effluent coming out of the washer unit should be stored in a lagoon 
for one day. The capacity of this lagoon shall be of one day’s water use 
capacity of the processing unit.
 • This effluent should be neutralized with appropriate amount of Agricultural 
lime so that the pH of the effluent is around 6.9 to 7.0. Generally 5 grams of 
good liming material is adequate to neutralize 0ne litre of the effluent.
 • After one day of storage, the effluent is allowed to the anaerobic lagoon. 
Before allowing the effluent to the lagoon, the anaerobic lagoon should be 
charged with 4% cow dung slurry up to 10% of the capacity of the lagoon. 
Charging of the anaerobic lagoon should be done one month before the 
pulping operation starts so that the methogenic bacteria present in the cow 
dung slurry which are responsible for the degradation of the biological 
materials get stabilized. The capacity of the anaerobic lagoon should be 
equivalent to 21 days effluent production with a maximum depth of 3 metres.
 36
37
 • Add 4.5 kg of urea and 2.5 kg of super phosphate per every 20000 litres of 
effluent.
 • After 21 days, the effluent from anaerobic tank should be allowed to the 
aerobic tank. The depth of this lagoon should not be more than one metre and 
capacity should be of 7 days effluent production
 • In aerobic lagoon, addition of 450 g of urea and 250 g of super phosphate per 
20,000 litres of effluent is essential.
 • The effluent coming out of the aerobic lagoon be then stabilized in another 
tank for one day and used for irrigation if the BOD level is around 100 ppm.
 Preparation of cherry coffee is one of the ways of avoiding water pollution. The 
cherry coffee prepared from mature fruits which are carefully picked and sorted 
has better quality. Preparations of pulped natural coffee (as in Brazil) also 
contribute towards avoiding the production of coffee effluent. 
 10. Opening of Cradle Pits
 In sloppy areas cradle pits should be opened across the slope during the post
monsoon period. Cradle pits of 20 inch breadth and 12 inch depth and of convenient 
length should be opened up in staggered manner in between the rows of coffee all 
along the contour. Cradle pits act as mini compost pits for the fallen debris, leaves, 
dadap loppings and weed bio-mass. These pits help in conserving the soil moisture 
and preventing soil erosion. These pits have to be renovated once in 2-3 years. 
11. Hutting
 In open patches where adequate shade protection for young seedlings is lacking, 
the seedlings have to be provided with artificial shade (hutting) with branchlets of 
jungle trees during the dry months.
 37
38
         For The growers of South-west Monsoon Area
 (ROBUSTA)
 CULTURAL OPERATIONS TO BE CARRIED OUT DURING
 DECEMBER-JANUARY MONTHS
 1.Nursery
 2.Robusta coffee harvesting
 3.Coffee Processing
 (a) : Preparation of Parchment coffee
 (b) : Preparation of Cherry coffee
 4.Coffee effluent management
 5.Coffee Berry Borer Management
 6.Dadap protection
 7.Watering of young coffee plants
 8.Soil testing and liming of soils
 9. Continuation Winter irrigation
                                                     ********
 ROBUSTA BEARING PLANT
 1.Nursery
 Gentle sloping land without big shade trees is preferred for raising nurseries. 
Water should not stagnate in the nursery sites. Stagnant water near the nursery beds 
38
39
 cause rotting of seedlings. Suitable water resource should be available near the 
nursery for timely watering of the nursery beds and seedlings. Any shade trees near 
the nursery will damage the young nursery seedlings in the beds and poly bags due to 
water dripping from them. 
For sowing the coffee seeds, germination beds of 1 metre width and of 
convenient length raised to a height of 15 cm from the ground level should be 
prepared. About 4 bags (10Kgs) of matured farm yard manure or compost well dried 
under sun light be mixed with 2 Kgs of fine Agricultural lime and 0.5 Kgs of Rock 
Phosphate and thoroughly incorporated in the nursery beds measuring 1X6 metres. In 
the nursery high clay content should not be used as they restrict the air circulation 
causing damage to the sprouting seeds. If one is using the clayish soil, then it should 
be mixed with coarse sand properly to enable easy air circulation. Any deficit air 
circulation in the nursery soil will cause stunted unhealthy development of the 
seedlings sometimes resulting in death of the seedlings. The nursery sites should be 
totally free from nematodes. Therefore, it is advised and recommended that before 
preparing the nursery, the soils of the nursery site as well as the soils to be used to 
prepare the nursery beds should be tested in the laboratories for the presence of 
nematodes.  One should note that the compost/farm yard manure used in the nursery 
should be free from cockchafer pests.
 Selected and certified seeds can be sown during December or January in the nursery 
beds. The seeds be sown with their flat side facing the soil which helps early 
germination and easy rooting in the soil. After sowing, the seeds are covered with a 
thin layer of finely sieved soil and mulched with a layer of paddy straw which ensures 
optimum temperature for seed germination and protects the seeds from desiccation. If 
paddy straw is not available, any kind of other grass materials can be used for 
mulching. The beds are then daily optimally watered in the morning hours with rose 
cans. The seeds will germinate in about 40-45 days and attain button or topee stage. 
Once this stage is reached the mulch covering the beds should be carefully removed 
without damaging the germinated seeds. The seedlings at topee or button stage can be 
then transplanted into either into poly bags or in the secondary nursery beds as the 
need may be.  
2. Robusta coffee harvesting
 To maintain and protect the coffee beverage quality, aroma, thickness of the 
brew, taste and flavour as well as acidity in the cup, the right kind of coffee fruits 
have to be harvested in right time following certain suggested guidelines. Improper 
harvesting will result in spoiling the cup quality even if the coffee plants are known to 
belong to top quality category. Therefore, following the right kind of harvesting 
procedure will help in protecting the inherent quality as well as helps in getting 
premium prices. 
Coffee fruits have to be picked as and when they become ripe; this can be 
understood by gently squeezing the fruit with fingers. On gentle squeeze, the bean 
inside the fruit pops out easily. Under ripe or over ripe fruits should not be mixed or 
used for the preparation of parchment coffee as they can spoil the overall cup quality. 
The under ripe coffee fruits result in the production of immature beans and the over 
ripe ones cause foxy coffee resulting in brown beans with fruity cup. If the harvest is 
not possible as and when fruits rightly mature, the under ripe and over ripe fruits 
needs to be separated from the lot and only right kind of desired fruits have to be 
pulped in the course of preparation of parchment coffee. 
39
40
 The under and over ripe fruits can be converted into cherry coffee. While 
harvesting the coffee, picking mats should be used, this helps in easy collection of 
fallen fruits and prevents the mould formation. Prevention of mould formation avoids 
the production of Ochra Toxin-A in coffee beans. Use of picking mats also reduces 
the Coffee Berry Borer infection. One should note that, clean gunny bags or plastic 
bags should be used for collecting the fruits during harvesting. These bags have to be 
regularly washed with clean water, dried and used for collecting the fruits. Bags used 
for storing chemicals, fertilizers, pesticides, insecticides and fungicides should never 
be used for harvesting coffee fruits. No fruits should be allowed to remain in the 
plants after the end of season harvest as it can invite berry borer infestation. 
3. Coffee Processing
 (a): Preparation of Robusta Parchment coffee
 The pulper, pulper tanks, siphon tanks, rakers, washer, fermentation tanks 
should be thoroughly cleaned before the pulping operation is undertaken. The 
premises of the pulper unit as well as the drying yards should be kept in hygienic way. 
The pulper unit should be properly adjusted depending on the fruit size and checked 
every day to prevent cuts. Pulper nipped and other deformed beans will yield 
defective low quality parchment. All the floats, leaves, twigs should be separated 
from the fruits and only ripen fruits should be fed into the pulper using regulated 
amount of clean water. 
Parchment coffee or plantation coffee can be prepared by pulping, cleanly 
washed with water and dried under sun. Preparation of such coffee requires pulping 
equipments and adequate supply of clean water. The quality of parchment coffee is 
always superior to that of cherry coffee (whole fruit dried under sun). Cherry coffees 
always give fruity taste as the beans are in contact with the mucilage for a longer time 
during the course of drying period. Therefore, wet processing of coffee is essential to 
get superior quality coffee and the method can be followed wherever, all the adequate 
facilities like sufficient clean water and good processing machineries are available.
 The pulping and washing machineries and other equipments used in the 
preparation of parchment coffee should be cleaned on daily basis. No fruits, fruit 
skins or beans from the previous day’s harvest should be allowed to remain and mix 
with fresh coffee fruits or pulped beans. These materials badly damage the parchment 
coffee quality. Only clean water shall be used for processing coffee fruits and all the 
extraneous matters such as leaves, twigs and stones should be thoroughly removed 
from the fruits before pulping. If adequate supply of water is not available, then the 
water used for pulping the fruits can be recycled to pulp the fruits second time. The 
pulped water however, should not be used on the second day. Further, pulped water 
should never be used for washing the coffee beans under any circumstances.
 As far as possible, harvested fruits have to be pulped on the same day of the 
harvest. If, it is not possible to process all the fruits on the same day, such fruits can 
be stored under clean water and pulped on the second day. The fruits stored for more 
than 10 hours in the open heap without pulping will result in fruity cup. The fruit 
skins separated by pulping should be taken away from the pulping site as quickly as 
possible so that microbial decomposition of the skin does not affect the quality of 
parchment coffee.
 The sticky mucilage on the pulped beans can be removed by 4 different 
methods. However, the commonly followed/adopted methods are two namely: (1) 
Natural Fermentation and (ii) : Aqua machine wash by friction.
 40
41
 Superior quality coffee can be obtained by natural fermentation method. Fermentation 
is a critical stage in processing and has a deep influence on the quality of coffee. 
When pulped coffee is stored in fermentation tanks along with the mucilage, natural 
hydrolysis of pectins present in coffee mucilage occurs due to the enzymes naturally 
present in coffee mucilage. In Robusta coffee, natural fermentation will be complete 
in about 36 to 72 hours due to its thick and hard mucilage. However, this may take 
longer time also when the ambient temperature is too low. The fermentation process 
should be controlled so that over fermentation is avoided. Over fermentation will 
result in foxy beans and make the coffee cup sourish. The under fermented coffee 
results in imparting mustiness in the cup. The correctness of fermentation can be 
checked by rubbing the fermenting beans with hand. The mucilage will come off 
easily and the parchment does not stick to the hand after wash. The beans feel rough 
and gritty when squeezed by hand and a feeling similar to squeezing pebbles is felt. 
After the correct fermentation, the beans are cleanly washed 3 to 4 times in clean 
water or in a washing machine. The quality of the coffee can be further enhanced, if 
the washed beans are soaked under water for about 6 to 8 hours.
 The parchment coffee prepared in such method initially contains around 50 – 
55% water content in them. The superficial   water content should be removed by 
spreading the parchment over wire mesh trays and then dried on clean cement or clay 
lined drying yards till the moisture content reaches a value of 11.0%. Generally 
parchment takes about 7 – 10 days for drying when spread at a thickness of 5 – 8 cm. 
If the parchment is spread too thin, rapid drying of coffee at this stage causes the 
parchment skin to split which lead to cracking of parchment, shrunken and boat 
shaped beans. Stirring and turning of parchment coffee at least once an hour is 
essential to facilitate uniform drying. The parchment should be heaped during the 
evening time and covered with polyethylene/tarpaulin sheets/gunny bags. Drying 
mass of parchment coffee should never be exposed to mist. Parchment coffee should 
not be exposed to the hottest sun between noon and early part of the afternoon 
especially on the 3rd and 4th day of drying. Exposing the parchment to the hottest sun 
during the 3rd and 4th day will result in wrinkled beans.  Once the coffee is dried to a 
recommended moisture level of 11.0%, the coffee has to be bagged in clean and dry 
gunny bags. Coffee of different lots should be bagged separately. New gunny bags 
should be always turned inside out well aerated before use as otherwise the coffee will 
absorb natural oils and off odours from the bag and give rise to an “acrid” 
(bitter/pungent/harsh) cup. If the gunny bags are procured from curing works, the 
bags should be properly fumigated or the curing works should be asked to fumigate 
and supply to avoid the spread of Coffee berry Borer infestation. Coffee should be 
stored in well ventilated and dry store rooms. The coffee should be stored on raised 
wooden platforms to ensure proper circulation of air underneath the bags. Parchment 
coffee and cherry coffees should not be stored one over the other. The fertilizers, 
chemicals, oils, insecticides and pesticides should not be stored in the coffee godown.
 (b): Preparation of Robusta Cherry coffee
 To prepare cherry coffee, fruits should be picked as and when they are ripe. 
Greens and under ripe fruits should be sorted out and dried separately. All the 
extraneous matters like twigs and leaves should be separated from the fruits and dried. 
The fruits should be spread uniformly in the drying yards at a thickness of 7 – 8 cm. 
Clean cement or clay lined drying yards should be used for drying the cherry coffee. 
41
42
 Use of cow dung smeared or mud drying yards should be avoided. Drying coffee in 
such yards causes mould formation in cherry coffee and quality of such coffees is 
very inferior. Coffee should be stirred and ridged at least once every hour to facilitate 
uniform drying. In the evening time cherry coffee should be heaped and covered with 
polythene or tarpaulin sheets to avoid contact with the mist. The coffee will be fully 
dry in about 10 -12 days under the bright weather conditions. Cherry coffee should be 
dried to a moisture level of 12 to 12.5%. The cherry is dry when handful of the drying 
cherry produces rattling sound when shaken and a sample forlit records the same 
weight on two consecutive days. At the end of the harvest, the remaining fruits on the 
plants should be completely stripped and fallen fruits should be gleaned cleanly. If 
this method of complete stripping and gleaning is not followed, there is a danger of 
Coffee Berry borer infestation during the coming years. Stripped and gleaned coffee 
should be dried separately and should not be mixed with other coffee.
                                     Drying Robusta Cherry
 4. Coffee effluent management
 Discharging untreated coffee effluent to natural water streams or to open lands 
is environmentally unsafe as it causes water and land pollution. Use of untreated 
coffee effluent for irrigation is also prohibited by the law. Since, coffee processing 
coincides with the dry season when amount of water present in the natural streams is 
at the minimum, causing further concern of higher degree of pollution.
 42
43
 The coffee effluents emanating from the pulper units are highly acidic and contains 
high amounts of dissolved and suspended biodegradable organic matters. These 
effluents, if discharged into natural water bodies without treatment, pollute the 
receiving bodies by depleting dissolved oxygen present in it. Polluting natural water 
bodies will have an adverse effect on domestic users, aquatic life, livestock and water 
course down the stream. The pollution load of coffee effluent is measured in terms of 
Biological Oxygen Demand (BOD) and Chemical Oxygen demand (COD). 
Depending on the quantity of water used to process one unit of clean coffee (1 M.T), 
the BOD and COD amounts vary in the effluent. The amount of BOD range between 
10000 and 15,000 ppm in robusta coffee effluent and the COD levels will be around 
two times of the BOD present in the effluent. One should note that BOD levels will 
increase if pulped water is recycled during the processing.
 In order to protect the environmental health and to control the pollution on 
account of polluted water reaching the natural water bodies, agricultural land and 
open spaces, Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), Government of India has 
imposed certain laws and guidelines for handling effluents. These guidelines have to 
be followed mandatorily failing which the person is severely punishable under the 
law. As per the CPCB statute, the water to be used for irrigation should not contain 
more than 100 ppm of BOD and water to be discharged to natural water bodies should 
not contain more than 30 ppm of BOD.  Since, coffee effluent contains more than the 
stipulated levels of BOD and COD, it has to be treated by following recommended 
methods of treatment before use in the field or discharging it to the streams.
 Steps to be followed in the treatment of Coffee Effluent
 • All the fruit skin shall be cleanly separated from the pulped water using 
suitable screens
 • The coffee effluent coming out of the washer unit should be stored in a lagoon 
for one day. The capacity of this lagoon shall be of one day’s water use 
capacity of the processing unit.
 • This effluent should be neutralized with appropriate amount of Agricultural 
lime so that the pH of the effluent is around 6.9 to 7.0. Generally 5 grams of 
good liming material is adequate to neutralize 0ne litre of the effluent.
 • After one day of storage, the effluent is allowed to the anaerobic lagoon. 
Before allowing the effluent to the lagoon, the anaerobic lagoon should be 
charged with 4% cow dung slurry up to 10% of the capacity of the lagoon. 
Charging of the anaerobic lagoon should be done one month before the 
pulping operation starts so that the methogenic bacteria present in the cow 
dung slurry which are responsible for the degradation of the biological 
materials get stabilized. The capacity of the anaerobic lagoon should be 
equivalent to 21 days effluent production with a maximum depth of 3 metres.
 • Add 4.5 kg of urea and 2.5 kg of super phosphate per every 20000 litres of 
effluent.
 • After 21 days, the effluent from anaerobic tank should be allowed to the 
aerobic tank. The depth of this lagoon should not be more than one metre and 
capacity should be of 7 days effluent production
 • In aerobic lagoon, addition of 450 g of urea and 250 g of super phosphate per 
20,000 litres of effluent is essential.
 43
44
 • The effluent coming out of the aerobic lagoon be then stabilized in another 
tank for one day and used for irrigation if the BOD level is around 100 ppm.
 Preparation of cherry coffee is one of the ways of avoiding water pollution. The 
cherry coffee prepared from mature fruits which are carefully picked and sorted 
has better quality. Preparations of pulped natural coffee (as in Brazil) also 
contribute towards avoiding the production of coffee effluent. 
5. Coffee Berry Borer Management
 The recommended phyto-sanitary methods have to be cleanly followed in the 
estate adopting cultural and mechanical operations.
 • Broca traps have to be installed in the estate as well as near the drying 
yards
 • Picking mats should be used during the harvesting. Use of picking mats 
facilitates the easy collection of fallen berries and avoids the berries 
coming into contact with the soils thereby preventing the possible mould 
formation.
 • All the left over berries on the plants and gleanings should be cleanly 
picked
 • If the berries are partially damaged by Coffee Berry Borer, such berries 
can be immersed in boiling water for 1 minute and then dried.
 • Highly damaged berries should be destroyed by burning
 • Coffee should be dried to the recommended moisture level.
 • Care should be taken not to transport coffee from the CBB infested area to 
the non-infested areas.
 • While procuring gunny bags from the coffee curing works, they should be 
properly fumigated to avoid the entry of CBB into your estate. The 
growers shall demand fumigation of gunny bags by the coffee curers. 
Always use clean and as far as possible new gunny bags.
 6. Dadap protection
 Protect the young dadap plants (during the first 2 years after planting) from 
scorching sun by treating (brushing or spraying) the stems with 10% lime solution 
(10.0 Kgs of spray lime in 100 litres of water).
 7. Watering   young coffee plants
 After the monsoon, it is recommended that young coffee plants should be 
watered with 5 to 10 litres water per plant once in a week. This avoids the wilting 
and death of young plants and facilitates easy and faster rooting of the plants. The 
growth of watered plants will be better and plants grow healthily. When the 
moisture content of the soil comes down in watered plants area, again the plants 
need to be watered so that wilting of the plants can be prevented. It should be 
noted that weed germination is faster in the watered region and regularly they 
should be slash weeded. Water requirement is generally higher (evaporation rate is 
44
45
 more) wherever, shade density is low and in such places mulching of young plants 
is necessary. 
8. Soil testing and liming of soils
 Liming of Soils
 In order to grow healthy coffee plants and to realize better crop, it is very 
important to protect primarily the soil health. The various plant nutrients in the soil 
need to be maintained in balance so that the soils remain productive for a long time. 
The acidity (pH) determines the productivity of the soil and nutrient 
assimilation/mineralization in the soil. In order to have better fertilize use efficiency 
of the applied fertilizers, the soil pH should be maintained at around 6.1 in coffee 
soils.  Due to the continuous application of acid causing fertilizers like ammonium 
sulphate, ammonium chloride and DAP and due to the leaching of calcium and 
magnesium elements in the soil, the soils tend to become acidic. Therefore, to monitor 
the soil pH, soils have to be tested compulsorily once in 2-3 years. When the soil pH 
goes above 6.2 or comes below 6.1, the soil pH needs to be corrected because the 
availability of essential plant nutrients depends on the soil pH. Strongly acidic soils 
(pH below 4.5) are relatively poor in productivity because of essential plant nutrient 
deficiencies or toxicities of essential or non essential elements. Highly acidic soils are 
harmful for the useful soil micro-organism and in such soils coffee plant growth is 
always tend to be stunted in nature. If the soils are alkaline (above pH 7.0), most of 
the essential plant nutrients are not available to the plants.
 Whenever, the coffee soil pH falls below 6.1, the soil pH should be corrected by 
the application of alkali forming soil amendments like agricultural lime(Calcium 
Carbonate), dolomite ( Calcium and Magnesium Carbonates). Liming of the coffee 
soils can be done anytime of the year except during monsoon period. However, 
keeping in mind the coffee zones, it is known that November to February months are 
the ideal period for lime application. One should take care that adequate moisture is 
present in the soil for the best use of applied lime. Liming materials has to be 
uniformly broadcasted in the field. Finer the liming material, higher will be its 
efficiency and the soil pH gets corrected faster. Liming of the soil should be done 
only after soil test and the quantity of the liming material accordingly decided.
 If the recommended dose of liming material is more than 3.5 metric tonnes per 
hectare, in such case the dose has to be split into two equal parts and applied in 2 
years. The scientific use of lime on acid soils can appreciably improve the soil 
productivity and the plant uptake of nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium and micro 
nutrients. In the case of soil pH going beyond 6.2, then pH can be corrected by the 
application of acid forming fertilizers. It is recommended that each lime samples 
should be tested for purity before use in the field. This will help in deciding the 
correct quantity of the procured lime to be applied in the field based on its purity.
 Soil Sampling 
It is important that the soil samples collected should be the representative of the field 
to be tested. The important procedure to be followed for the best sample collection is 
as follows.
 45
46
 • The field has to be divided into blocks of 2 hectares each. Sample each block 
separately. 
• When the areas within the field differ distinctly in growth of plants or 
appearance of the soils or known to have been treated differently, soil 
samples in such blocks should be collected and labelled separately.
 • Do not collect the sample during rainy season. Do not send the soil samples 
for analysis which are collected long back and stored.
 • Select at random 20 spots in each block, remove surface litter and dig a hole 
of 9 inches diameter using a suitable tool up to 9 inches depth. Scratch the 
soil samples uniformly round the hole from top to bottom and collect 1 kg of 
the sample and mix well to get the composite sample..
 • Samples should not be collected from the blocks which are recently limed or 
fertilized. Do not collect samples from road side, old bunds, and marshy 
places or near the shade trees. Collect soil samples at the centre of   4 coffee 
plants.
 • Dry the samples under shade and pack in a polyethylene bags or cotton bags 
and send to the laboratory properly labelled. Do not use fertilizer 
contaminated bags.
 • Give the details of the estate, crop harvested for the last 5 years, elevation, 
rainfall details, irrigation schedules if any, variety of coffee and age of the 
bushes. 
9. Continuation Winter irrigation
 Robusta coffee is susceptible to drought and responds well to irrigation. First, 
winter irrigation needs to be commenced 20-25 days after the cessation of monsoon. 
Irrigation of 25mm is to be given once in 20-25 days till the end of December. In case 
of rain during this period, then irrigation should be given only after monitoring the 
soil moisture.
 46
47
 CULTURAL OPERATIONS TO BE CARRIED OUT DURING
 FEBRUARY-MARCH MONTHS
 1. Fire Path
 2. Continuation of Harvesting and Processing
 3. Gleaning
 4. Soil Testing and Liming
 5. Leaf Analysis
 6. CBB management
 7. Pruning
 8. Blossom irrigation and Backing
 9. Compost Preparation
 10. Nursery
 11. Stripping
 1. Fire path
                                                      **********
 During the summer period there is a chance of wild forest fire occurring in the 
nearby forest or in the vicinity of the coffee estate. Hence as a precaution, fire paths 
have to be created round the estate by clearing all the dried leaves, dead tree remains, 
branches etc in order to avoid the fire spreading to the estate. 
2. Continuation of Harvesting and Processing
 The harvesting can be continued as explained earlier in the month of December 
and January.
 3. Gleaning
 During the harvest some amounts of berries fall on the ground. At the end of 
complete harvest and stripping, such fallen berries should be collected neatly and 
completely. They should be dried separately and should not be mixed with other 
coffee. Coffee obtained from gleanings will have earthy taste and possibility of mould 
contamination is likely in such coffees. By neat gleaning, infestation of CBB can also 
be avoided.
 4. Soil Testing and Liming
 If the soil analysis is not done during the previous months, soil testing has to 
be done and required amount of liming material has to be broadcast in the field. The 
liming material should be tested for its purity prior to its use.
 5.  Leaf analysis
 Coffee leaf analysis offers another type of approach in determining the 
nutrient availability of a soil and actual nutrient status in the plant itself. In order to 
determine the exact nutrient status in coffee plant, leaf analysis is very essential and a 
47
48
 useful tool. The status of nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium, calcium, magnesium, 
sulphur and other micro-nutrients can be exactly determined by chemical analysis of 
the leaves and deficiency of any of the essential nutrient element can be identified to 
take appropriate step in time before it becomes a limiting factor in productivity of the 
plant. Simultaneous analysis of soil and complimentary leaf samples gives precise 
requirement of nutrients and helps in enhancing the accuracy of fertilizer 
recommendation services since these analyses are complimentary to each other.
 The leaf analysis can be done ideally during February-March and September
November months. Third pair of leaves from growing tip of Robusta plant branches 
from the 2/3 height of the over all plant has to be collected randomly from the field. A 
minimum of 25 pairs of leaves from one hectare land is necessary for precise analysis. 
The leaf samples should be collected only during the morning time preferably before 
10.00 a.m and placed between two sheets of blotting paper and packed in a perforated 
polythene bags and sent to the laboratory immediately. The details on the block 
history, age of the plant, fertilizers applied and crop harvested should be sent to the 
laboratory while sending the leaf samples. These samples are then washed with clean 
water and dilute hydrochloric acid to remove any superficial chemicals, dust and 
spray particles adhering to the leaf surfaces before processing for chemical analysis. 
6. CBB management
 All the left over berries on the plants have to be cleanly collected and install 
broca traps in the field. Follow other recommended phyto-sanitary control measures. 
        COFFEE BERRY BORER BORING THE COFFEE BERRY
 7. Pruning
 Pruning is an important cultural operation in coffee estates. Pruning of plants 
reduces the greater risk of biennial bearing habits of the plants and helps in harvesting 
average crop each year. Pruning helps in reducing the exhaustion in plants and 
increases the fertilizer use efficiency by the plants. Other advantages of pruning are 
that all the plant parts get good aeration and light and helps in reducing the pest and 
disease incidence level.
 In Robusta plantations, pruning is done immediately after the harvest. But is 
strongly suggested that pruning operation should be started after observing the 
environmental situations like there should be sufficient soil moisture and weather 
48
49
 condition should not be dry. Lack of soil moisture and dry conditions introduce 
further strain on the plants if the pruning is done under this condition resulting in poor 
development of branches. Therefore, pruning can be best done after the receipt of a 
minimum of 2 inches rain. After few summer showers, plants put forth new shoots 
and this is the best time to start pruning. However, in irrigated, blocks, pruning can be 
done immediately after the harvest. Remove all the criss -cross branches, whippy 
wood, exhausted wood and diseased branches.
 8. Blossom irrigation and Backing
 Generally between February 15th and March 15th flower buds will mature and will 
be ready for blooming in Robusta coffee. Robusta coffee responds very well for 
sprinkler irrigation. Sprinkler irrigation can be practiced when there is a failure of 
blossom and backing showers. In Robusta, if blossom shower is not received in time 
or in deficient quantity, then flower buds turn pinkish and fall. Hence, if such 
conditions are seen, then immediate supplementary sprinkler irrigation can overcome 
this damage. After 15 to 20 days of the blossom, sprinkler irrigation should be given 
if backing showers are not received within this period. Use of rain guns for sprinkler 
irrigation will reduce the time of irrigation and save water.
 For healthy blossom, one should give a minimum of 25mm water. Similarly, one 
inch of water is required for backing. In irrigated plots, fertilizers can be applied on 
the next day or one day prior to irrigation. If the fertilizer applications are done prior 
to irrigation, all the fertilizer granules shall be properly mulched before irrigation.  
It should be noted that Robusta is a very sensitive plants and easily responds to 
rain. It requires timely blossom and backing shower. If, Robusta coffee plants do not 
receive blossom shower by March 15th, this will affect the bearing crop and there will 
be a considerable loss of crop every week. Therefore, Robusta coffee should be grown 
in areas where there is adequate resource for irrigation. In the case of blossom and 
backing shower failure this will come handy for irrigation and protect the crop. 
                                           SPRINKLER IRRIGATION
 49
50
 9. Compost Preparation
 Shade tree leaf litter, weeded materials, fallen twigs, green leaves, coffee skin, 
cherry and parchment husk are the raw materials for the preparation of compost in the 
estate level. In addition to these, coir pith, cow dung and domestic wastes can also be 
used for the preparation of compost depending on their availability in the farm level. 
The coffee effluent can be used for moistening the compost pits as well as to enrich 
the quality of the compost. Earth worms can be used to degrade the coffee processing 
wastes mixed with cow dung and domestic wastes. The compost should be applied to 
the fields preferably during the post monsoon period for better efficiency. If compost 
is applied during the summer months, the mineralization of the compost will be slow 
and chances of losing the mineral content are more during the dry season.
                                               COMPOST HEAPS
 10.Nursery
 For basket nursery one should use the polythene bags of the dimension 6 X 9 
(b X h) inches of 150 gauges. If lower gauge bags are used, there is a chance that the 
bags may break when soil is filled. Use of lower dimension backs severely hinders the 
healthy development of roots. Further, 12 uniform holes (3 mm) at equidistance 
should be made on the nursery bags to facilitate easy air circulation for the growing 
seedlings as well as to allow the excess water to flow out.  Stagnation of water in the 
bags results in the rotting of seedlings. 
A  nursery mixture of 6 parts of sieved jungle soil( free from nematodes and other 
pests), two parts of well rotted cattle manure or compost and one part of coarse river 
sand (do not use sea sand as it contains sodium which is harmful to the seedlings) 
should be prepared and mixed well to fill the nursery bags. If the jungle soils are not 
available, it can be substituted with sieved surface soil mixed with compost or vermin 
compost. Prior to planting, the nursery bags should be gently watered and a vertical 
hole of about 5 cm deep should be made in the soil at the centre of the bags. The 
coffee seedlings at button stage are transplanted into the nursery bags. Seedlings 
should not be planted deep in the nursery bags and after planting, the seedlings should 
be watered daily in the morning times. Nursery should be cleaned off from weeds and 
50
51
 ROBUSTA NURSERY 
other plants regularly. Provide overhead pendal shade till the commencement of 
regular monsoon. 
There is a possibility of Cercospora (Brown-eye- spot) disease infecting the tender 
leaves of the seedlings in the nursery. To prevent the disease, spray    Indofil -M-45 
solutions (5 g/1 litre of water) or Bavistin (1g/litre)
 Now a days, another fungal disease is also seen in the nursery this is caused by a 
fungus called Myrothecium roridum. In the case of attack the nursery plants show 
infection of the stem portion and leaves. The symptoms observed are water soaked 
brown to greyish white discolouration followed by defoliation of the leaves and death 
of the seedlings. To prevent and cure this disease, spray 0.8ml of Tilt (propiconazole) 
in one litre of water. This spray should be done once in a month till the end of the 
monsoon. In case of earthworm problem in the nursery and nursery baskets, this can 
be prevented by pouring soap nut solution. The solution can be prepared by finely 
crushing fresh soap nuts and squeezing them in water.  
Before transplanting the seedlings in the field, remove and destroy all the 
suspicious, stunted and disease affected seedlings from the nursery and plant only 
vigorous and healthy seedlings to avoid any future problems in the field. 
11. Stripping of the crop
 At the end of harvest, the berries remaining on the coffee plants have to be 
stripped off completely. This operation should be done carefully without harming or 
damaging the plant branches or new flower bud bearing branches. If the new shoots 
and branches are damaged, it will affect the next year crop. The one of the advantages 
of complete harvest is to reduce and avoid berry borer infestation during the coming 
years. Stripped berries should be dried separately and should not be mixed with other 
coffee as the quality of such coffee is inferior.
 51
52
 CULTURAL OPERATIONS TO BE CARRIED OUT DURING
 APRIL-MAY MONTHS
 1. Line Marking
 2. Pitting
 3. Pruning
 4. Pre-monsoon Manuring
 5. Shade regulation
 6. Opening of Cradle pits/drainage
 7. Coffee Berry Borer Management
 8. Clonal Propagation of Plants
 1. Line Marking
 ********
 While choosing the site for coffee planting due consideration should be given to 
elevation, slope, aspect, soil type, rainfall, wind speed, shade trees, and availability of 
perennial water source and transport facilities. North, East and North-East aspects are 
suitable for growing coffee. Western aspect is not suitable because plants suffer from 
scorching sun. If one wants establish plantations in lands facing Western aspect, then 
proper thick shade cover has to be provided to protect plants from direct sunlight. 
Before new planting, shade trees have to be planted in adequate numbers in advance 
to give protection to the young plants. If, already the land is covered with trees, then 
while regulating the plant density, selective retention of desired species should be 
done.
 The planting land should be divided into blocks of convenient size with proper 
foot paths and roads for transportation laid out in between. Dadap plants have to be 
planted in the blocks at a distance of 20 feet apart during June month to provide 
temporary lower canopy shade.  Within each block, the points for planting coffee 
seedlings should be located by marking the distance between the rows and plant 
distance. The following are the optimum spacing for different coffee cultivars:
 (a)
 (c)
     Tall Robusta – 10 X 10 feet
   C X R
            -   8  X 8 or 9 X 9 feet
 Once the land is marked, the soils from each block have to be tested and required 
amount of agricultural lime should be applied to correct the soil pH for the optimum 
growth of the plants. In steep slopes it is suggested to adopt contour planting so that 
soil erosion can be prevented and this method also helps in easy operation of the 
cultural practices. Square system should be adopted in gentle or flat lands.
 2. Pitting
 Pits for coffee planting are to be opened after few summer showers during 
March month. If, summer showers are delayed, this work can be deferred till the 
showers are received. The pits measuring 1.5 X 1.5 X 1.5 feet length, breadth and 
depth are ideal for planting. After opening, pits are to be exposed for weathering for 
15 – 20 days. Later, add 1.0 – 1.5 kgs of compost/farm yard manure and 50-100 gms 
52
53
 of rock phosphate in each pit and close the pits by filling in with the surrounding top 
soil. A small bamboo stick or wooden pole can be inserted at the centre of the pit for 
identification.
 3. Pruning
 When one or two summer showers are received, coffee plants start producing new 
shoots. This is the right time for pruning. Pruning essentially a thinning process to 
direct the vigour of the plants into those parts which produce crops. Pruning is to 
remove the unproductive wood for encouraging the growth of new branches which 
would become next years cropping wood. Pruning facilitates the entry of adequate sun 
light and air to all parts of the bushes thereby reducing the incidence of pest and 
diseases and helps maintaining the frame work of the plants in desired shape.
 In some plantations, there is a practice of pruning the coffee plants immediately 
after the harvest. But pruning operation should not be started until one or two summer 
showers (minimum of 2 inches of rain) are received. If sufficient moisture is present 
in the soil after the harvest, then pruning can be done immediately.  In irrigated blocks 
pruning can be done immediate after the harvest. The plants generally under stress 
due to mechanical injuries caused during the harvest. Under this condition if pruning 
is done in the absence of soil moisture, the plants suffer further stress because of the 
pruning operation resulting in poor future development of cropping woods. Precaution 
should be taken not to prune deeply exhausted or diseased or die –back affected plants 
until sufficient rain is received as indicated above.  It is recommended to practice only 
light pruning involving removal of old unproductive wood, criss-cross branches, 
branches touching ground, lean, lanky and whippy wood and pest and disease affected 
branches as well as branches growing towards main stem and ground.  Use only sharp 
tools to prune the plants
 4. Pre-monsoon Manuring
 After the harvest and pruning, coffee plants will be generally in an exhausted 
and weak condition. Once the summer shower is received, we can see immediate 
growth activities in the plants and they start to produce new shoots. During this phase, 
it is essential to supply plant nutrients in required quantities through soil application 
of fertilizers.
 In every coffee estate, the grown up plants need 50:50:50 kgs of nitrogen, 
phosphorus and potash per hectare for their vegetative growth. This is called 
sustenance nutrient dose which has to be given compulsorily to keep the plant health 
in good condition. The sustenance dose of fertilizer does not depend on the level of 
crop harvested or in the bearing but needed for the proper growth of roots, stem and 
vegetative parts.
 The remaining quantity of annual fertilizer requirement of coffee plants are 
calculated based on the age and health of the plants, soil test values and crop level as 
well as the average crop harvested during the last five years. Therefore it is essential 
that the soils have to be tested for their fertility status routinely in order to avoid under 
or over fertilization in the field. The calculated amounts of fertilizers need to be 
applied in 2 to 3 splits. One of the split doses of fertilizer has to be given during the 
pre-monsoon period i.e. after receiving sufficient amounts of summer shower.
 Before the application of pre-monsoon fertilizers, the plants should be relieved 
of their unproductive and undesired growths (pruning) and should complete weeding 
53
54
 operation. Based on the recommended levels of fertilizers and area to be fertilized, 
suitable quantity of fertilizers should be uniformly mixed and applied in the field.
 The maximum fertilizer use efficiency will be obtained when they are placed 
around the plant instead of broadcasting. Therefore, all the mulch shall be cleared 
around the plant up to the plant canopy area leaving one foot distance from the main 
stem. The soil in this area is then slightly disturbed using the forks and fertilizers 
should be uniformly applied in this area. After the application, the soil has to be 
reworked so that all the fertilizer particles are well covered and finally re-mulch the 
soil with the previously cleared mulch. One should note that a single split dose of 
fertilizer should not exceed 100:75:100 kgs of N: P: K per hectare. If larger quantity 
of fertilizers is given in a single split there is a high chance of loss of nutrients due to 
volatilization. In highly productive blocks, the number of split doses will be more 
than 3-4 splits. The plants during the blossom/after blossom and pre-monsoon period 
essentially require phosphorus nutrient and hence, one should not skip phosphorus 
application during this period. It is advised that all the farm wastes like fruit skin, 
mucilage and cherry or parchment husks shall be composted in the estate and recycled 
in the farm.
 5. Shade regulation
 Coffee requires optimum filtered shade for its best performance under Indian 
conditions. Therefore it is essential to regulate the shade trees regularly in order to 
provide required light intensity to the coffee plants. Generally May is the ideal month 
for shade regulation. Shade regulation should not be undertaken if dry weather and 
lack of moisture in the soil prevails in the field. Shade regulation under this condition 
further increases the soil moisture loss leading to wilting of plants and decreased new 
shoot formation which will adversely affects the next year crop. The white stem borer 
activities can also increase leading to higher infestation on coffee plants. Therefore, 
shade regulation shall be done preferably only after receiving 4-5 inches of rainfall. 
Meticulously and properly regulated shade helps in minimizing the biennial bearing 
habits of coffee plants, avoids die-back and wilting of plants. All the drooping 
branches of shade trees at a height of 9-12 metres above the coffee plants should be 
removed so that filtered light penetrates into the ground.
 Similarly, the lower tier shade (dadap) should also be regulated. As soon as 
monsoon sets in, the branches of all the dadap plants should be removed. The lopped 
small branches shall be finely chopped and all the leaf compliments obtained during 
the shade regulations shall be spread all over the ground and allowed for rotting. After 
the monsoon, dadap plants needs to be regulated depending on the growth of dadap 
plants. The dadap stakes can be used for planting in other areas. 
6. Cradle pit/ Drainage Channels
 In slopy areas, the cradle pits are generally opened during October-November 
months. These pits get filled during the north-east and S-W monsoon period and 
hence needs renovation once in 2-3 years. All the deposits like washed soil, leaf litter, 
weed bio-mass and tree debris shall be removed from these pits and spread near the 
surrounding plants.  April-May months are the ideal period for the renovation of these 
pits. Similarly, before the onset of the monsoon all the drainage channels should be 
cleaned and connected to the main catch pits. If these channels are not renovated, 
water will stagnate in these channels and pits which causes damage to the coffee plant 
54
55
 roots due to chilling effect causing wet feet disorder in plants. Wet feet disorder 
causes defoliation in plants. In water logging areas (flat areas), drainage channels of 
1.5 feet breadth and 1 foot deep should be opened up at suitable distances between the 
rows to drain out excess water from the field. These drainage channels should be 
connected to the water catch pits opened at the end of the field. Proper drainage 
system provided in the coffee fields helps in improving the soil structure, root 
respiration and development. Collecting excess water in catch pits increases the water 
table in the ground. 
7. Coffee Berry Borer Management
 Remove all the left over berries on the plants. Install broca traps in the field 
8. Clonal Propagation of Plants
 Coffee can be propagated successfully using the vegetative parts of the plants like 
shoots, leaf and suckers. This technique offers an advantage of preserving the unique 
desired characteristics of any individual plant in its offspring. Vegetatively, coffee can 
be propagated by cutting as well as by grafting techniques.
 Propagation through cuttings:
 Select 3-6 month old (pencil thick) orthotropic suckers from healthy productive 
selected plants. Do not select plageotropic (horizontal) suckers for vegetative 
propagation as they always maintain lateral growth. From each selected sucker, 
prepare as many as single node cuttings as possible of 10 cm length with a basal slant 
cut and top horizontal cut at inter-nodal region by retaining a pair of leaves in each 
node. Cut the leaves to half of their size. Immerse the cuttings for about a minute in a 
bucket containing Bavistin solution (1 gm of Bavistin in 250 ml water) to avoid any 
fungal contamination.  Dip the base of the cutting (slant cut) for 5-10 seconds in 
Indole butric acid solution (500 mg of indole butric acid + 50 ml alcohol and 100 ml 
water) for facilitating early rooting. These cuttings can be planted in punched 
polythene bags of 9 X 6 inch size filled with soil mixture. The soil mixture has to be 
prepared by mixing well sieved jungle soil, sand and farm yard manure in the ratio 
6:3:1. These bags have to be arranged in propagation trenches. The propagation 
trenches are of 1 metre width, 0.5 metre depth and 2.5metre length covered with 
polythene transparent sheets of 500 gauge over a supporting frame made of either 
bamboo or metals. The trenches with the planted cuttings have to be provided with 
overhead coir mat or agro-net shade. Narrow drainage channels have to be made 
around the trenches to drain off rain water. Watering of the cuttings should be done 
once a day during the morning hours in cool season. During the dry season watering 
should be done two times, once in the morning and second time in the afternoon. 
Cuttings will root in about 3 months after transplanting under trench condition. After 
rooting, the cuttings are to be hardened for two months under coir mat shade. The 
hardened rooted cuttings can be planted in the field. Planting of these cuttings during 
June-August gives good establishment of the plant.
 Note: Training on vegetative propagation will be given at Central coffee Research 
Institute for the interested growers.  
55
56
 CULTURAL OPERATIONS TO BE CARRIED OUT DURING
 JUNE-JULY MONTHS
 1. Planting Shade trees
 2. Desuckering/Handling
 3. Weeding
 4. Nursery
 5. Coffee Berry Borer Management
 *********
 1. Planting Shade trees
 June-July months are ideal for planting shade trees. It is always better to have 
mixed shade trees rather than having mono shade like silver. Planting only silver oak 
trees does not ensure filtered shade. The temperature of the field is generally higher in 
the estates where silver oaks are planted as shade trees. Further, the silver oak leaf 
litter does not degrade as quickly as   other leaves. The black rot disease and white 
stem borer incidence are more prevalent in estates with silver oak as shade tree. 
Therefore, it recommended that in coffee estates more of other shade trees have to be 
planted like Indian fig, atti, bili basari, mallegargatti, rose wood, jack, gandagarige 
and trees belonging to leguminous family. In high rainfall areas, the plants which shed 
leaves during the monsoon but quickly foliate after the monsoon have to be chosen. 
The trees like   Atti or Balanji belong to this category. Planting of trees like neeli in 
the estates should be avoided as these trees harbour caterpillars. Permanent shade 
trees should be planted at a distance of 12-15 metres. In wind prone areas, silver oak 
and silk cotton trees have to be planted densely round the boundary of the estate.
 2. Desuckering/Handling
 Plants start producing more new shoots after the receipt of sufficient showers. 
This necessitates one or two rounds of handling once during June-July months and 
later during August-September. During the handling operation, the new flush arising 
after the main pruning is thinned out to a desired number (2 per node) of well spaced 
branches.
 Centring should be done by the removal of new shoots arising within half foot radius 
of the main stem. This facilitates good air circulation and penetration of light into all 
parts of the plant as well as prevents the black rot disease. Centring is a skilled work; 
too much opening of the centre of the plants may invite trouble from White Stem 
Borer. Desuckering has to be done by removing the suckers growing from the main 
stem. Gourmandizers should not be retained. There is a practice in some estates 
allowing the gourmandizers for many years. This practice should be discontinued as it 
spoils the plant frame work and all the lower branches will be affected in due course. 
All the criss-cross branches should also be removed. By removing all such undesired 
growth, the fertilizer use efficiency by the plants can be increased.
 3. Weeding
 Weeding operation has to be undertaken. Use slash weeding
 56
57
                                                     SLASH
 4. Nursery
 WEEDING
 Remove the overhead pendal from the nursery completely.  Provide proper 
drainage channels round the nursery to avoid water stagnation. Nursery should be 
cleaned of from any weeds.
 5. Coffee Berry Borer Management
 The coffee berry borer incidence in the estate should be monitored and should 
take all the preventive measures. Use Baveria bassiana fungus culture solution to 
control the CBB. (See Arabica section for details)
 57
58
 CULTURAL OPERATIONS TO BE CARRIED OUT DURING
 AUGUST-SEPTEMBER MONTHS
 1. Planting and Gap filling
 2. Mid monsoon manuring
 3. Coffee Berry Borer Management
 4. Indenting for Seed coffee
 *******
 1. Planting and Gap filling
 6-8 month old basket seedlings can be planted in the field. Gap filling should 
be done with the same variety. Do not practice planting different varieties of coffee in 
the same block. Different varieties perform differently in the same block in terms of 
growth, quality and productivity. Therefore, planting different varieties in the same 
block will disturb the field uniformity as well as results in inconsistent cup quality. 
Further, the level of disease and pest resistance of different varieties is different from 
each other.
 Provide adequate protection to the plants from cattles and monkey menace. 
Protect the plants from cockchafer pest during the initial years of planting. Keep the 
weeds away from the new planting site as they compete for applied fertilizers with the 
coffee plants. Weeds are more efficient than coffee plants in absorbing applied 
nutrients and hence keep them away. Mulch every new coffee plant and provide them 
protection from wind by placing cross stakes. Wherever, shade protection is deficient, 
hutting should be done. 
2. Mid- monsoon manuring
 During the monsoon, nutrient nitrogen is lost very fast due to leaching. Plants 
need nitrogen during this period in order to produce more of shoots and branches. It is 
necessary to provide nitrogen to the plants to balance the nitrogen loss due to 
leaching. Therefore, apply 58 kgs of nitrogen (2.5 bags of Urea) per hectare during 
the break in the monsoon. This mid monsoon application of urea also helps in 
reducing the berry drop.
 3. Coffee Berry Borer Management
 The coffee berry borer incidence in the estate should be monitored and should 
take all the preventive measures. Use Baveria bassiana fungus culture solution to 
control the CBB. (See Arabica section for details)
 4. Indenting for Seed coffee
 Robusta/C X R seed coffee for the preparation of nursery should be procured 
only from the Central Coffee Research Institute and its other Sub and Regional 
stations and through Extension wing of the Board. Growers are advised to book their 
seeds by advance payment either at CCRI or with the extension offices not later than 
September.
 58
59
 CULTURAL OPERATIONS TO BE CARRIED OUT DURING
 OCTOBER- NOVEMBER MONTHS
 1. Weeding
 2. Soil digging
 3. Post monsoon Manuring
 4. Soil testing and Liming
 5. Hutting
 6. CBB management
 7. Winter Irrigation
 1. Weeding
 ********
 Different types of weeds grow in coffee estates and they compete with coffee 
plants for moisture and mineral nutrients. If the weeds are allowed to grow during the 
late post-monsoon period, they use the soil moisture which coffee plants need in the 
following dry season. Free growth of weeds reduces the yield of coffee plants as well 
as their growth. Therefore, it very important to control the weeds in the field. In 
young plantations weeds are the major problems during the initial years. In new 
clearings, the weeds should be removed by slash weeding at least 3-4 times in a year. 
While in established fields, 2-3 times this operation has to be carried out. All the 
slashed weeds should be spread in the field during the rainy season for rotting and 
bio-degradation. Weeds which have the habit of flowering should be removed before 
they flower. After the monsoon, clean weeding should be done in the entire estate.
 In established plantations, recommended weedicides can also be used. But one 
should note that, the sprayers used for spraying weedicides should never be used for 
spraying any other chemicals without ensuring 100% cleaning. Use WFN 062 or 
WFN 040 flood jet nozzles for spraying weedicides. The use of weedicides should be 
judicious and as far as possible the use should be restricted to the most minimum level 
to avoid environmental contamination. Weedicides along with wetting agent should 
be applied on a bright sunny day when there is sufficient moisture. The soil moisture 
helps the faster absorption of the weedicides by the weeds.
 In the new clearing, the fields should be given a thorough cover digging to a 
depth of 9 inches towards the end of monsoon and all weeds, vegetative wastes and 
debris should be completely turned over and buried into the soil. In young clearings, 
coffee planted at normal spacing covers only a small portion of the ground and 
therefore weeds grow prolifically. In such spaces growing of green manure crops, 
cover crops, legumes, beans, pigeon peas, sweet potato and vegetables are 
recommended as these plants hinder the growth of weeds. The crop from these plants 
can either be harvested or these plants can be cut and incorporated in the soil again. In 
2-4 year old plantations, the soil has to be scuffled to a depth of 0.25 inches (7.5 cm) 
or cover crops have to be grown.
 Recommended Weedicides
 Paraquat-di-chloride 24% EC @ 0.067% active ingredient (a.i.)
 For example dissolve 500 ml of Gramoxone in a barrel of water and spray.
                                       Or
 Glyphosate 41% EC @ 0.27% a.i.
 For example dissolve 1200 ml of Round up or Glycel in a barrel of water and spray.
 59
60
 The cost and the quantity of the weedicides can be brought down by nearly 
50% by the addition of 2 kgs of Urea to the spray solution without affecting the 
efficiency of the spray solution. By adding 2 kgs of urea, the dosage of Gramoxon 
could be reduced to 250 ml while the quantity of Round up/Glycel could be reduced 
to 600 ml per barrel.
 2. Soil digging
 After one year of planting, soil digging should be given to a depth of 9 inches 
in  new clearing towards the end of monsoon. All the weeds should be completely 
turned under and incorporated in the soil thoroughly. This operation shall be done 
only for two years after planting coffee. This will help in suppression of weed growth 
and conservation of soil moisture in new clearings. Avoid deep digging in steep 
slopes as it can lead to soil erosion. If the plants are 3-4 years, then soil scuffling can 
be done to a depth of 3 inches. 
3. Post monsoon Manuring
 Nitrogen is the most important plant nutrient and plants need it throughout the 
year. Nitrogen helps in the development of new shoots and berries. Nitrogen also 
helps in the production of large number of flowers and retention of leaves for a longer 
time. Adequately nitrogen supplied plants produce dense beans of higher quality. 
Potassium is another element which is essential for the fruit setting, bean filling, 
maturation and hardening of the beans. It improves the vigour and the pest and 
disease tolerance of the plants. Phosphorus is needed for the healthy and strong 
development of roots and shoots.
 After the monsoon, recommended doses of fertilizers have to be applied. Though the 
placement of fertilizers (pegging) is very efficient in terms of utilization, the process 
is laborious and time consuming. Therefore, simple method of application is 
suggested as under. Remove, the mulch under the plant canopy leaving one foot circle 
around the main stem. Slightly disturb the soil in the de-mulched area with forks. 
Broadcast fertilizer uniformly and evenly in this area and rework the soil. Cover again 
with the removed mulch. This method is very efficient and it avoids volatilization and 
washing away of nutrients. In steep areas, fertilizers can be applied in semi arch form 
on the upper side of the stem down the slope. 
4. Soil testing and Liming
 In order to grow healthy coffee plants and to realize better crop, it is very 
important to protect primarily the soil health. The various plant nutrients in the soil 
need to be maintained in balance so that the soils remain productive for a long time. 
The acidity (pH) determines the productivity of the soil and nutrient 
assimilation/mineralization in the soil. In order to have better fertilize use efficiency 
of the applied fertilizers, the soil pH should be maintained at around 6.1 in coffee 
soils.  Due to the continuous application of acid causing fertilizers like ammonium 
sulphate, ammonium chloride and DAP and due to the leaching of calcium and 
magnesium elements in the soil, the soils tend to become acidic. Therefore, to monitor 
the soil pH, soils have to be tested compulsorily once in 2-3 years. When the soil pH 
goes above 6.2 or comes below 6.1, the soil pH needs to be corrected because the 
availability of essential plant nutrients depends on the soil pH. Strongly acidic soils 
(pH below 4.5) are relatively poor in productivity because of essential plant nutrient 
deficiencies or toxicities of essential or non essential elements. Highly acidic soils are 
60
61
 harmful for the useful soil micro-organism and in such soils coffee plant growth is 
always tend to be stunted in nature. If the soils are alkaline (above pH 7.0), most of 
the essential plant nutrients are not available to the plants.
 Whenever, the coffee soil pH falls below 6.1, the soil pH should be corrected by 
the application of alkali forming soil amendments like agricultural lime(Calcium 
Carbonate), dolomite ( Calcium and Magnesium Carbonates). Liming of the coffee 
soils can be done anytime of the year except during monsoon period. However, 
keeping in mind the coffee zones, it is known that November to February months are 
the ideal period for lime application. One should take care that adequate moisture is 
present in the soil for the best use of applied lime. Liming materials has to be 
uniformly broadcasted in the field. Finer the liming material, higher will be its 
efficiency and the soil pH gets corrected faster. Liming of the soil should be done 
only after soil test and the quantity of the liming material accordingly decided.
 If the recommended dose of liming material is more than 3.5 metric tonnes per 
hectare, in such case the dose has to be split into two equal parts and applied in 2 
years. The scientific use of lime on acid soils can appreciably improve the soil 
productivity and the plant uptake of nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium and micro 
nutrients. In the case of soil pH going beyond 6.2, then pH can be corrected by the 
application of acid forming fertilizers. It is recommended that each lime samples 
should be tested for purity before use in the field. This will help in deciding the 
correct quantity of the procured lime to be applied in the field based on its purity.
 Method of Soil Sampling 
It is important that the soil samples collected should be the representative of the field 
to be tested. The important procedure to be followed for the best sample collection is 
as follows.
 • The field has to be divided into blocks of 2 hectares each. Sample each block 
separately. 
• When the areas within the field differ distinctly in growth of plants or 
appearance of the soils or known to have been treated differently, soil 
samples in such blocks should be collected and labelled separately.
 • Do not collect the sample during rainy season. Do not send the soil samples 
for analysis which are collected long back and stored.
 • Select at random 20 spots in each block, remove surface litter and dig a hole 
of 9 inches diameter using a suitable tool up to 9 inches depth. Scratch the 
soil samples uniformly round the hole from top to bottom and collect 1 kg of 
the sample and mix well to get the composite sample..
 • Samples should not be collected from the blocks which are recently limed or 
fertilized. Do not collect samples from road side, old bunds, and marshy 
places or near the shade trees. Collect soil samples at the centre of   4 coffee 
plants.
 • Dry the samples under shade and pack in a polyethylene bags or cotton bags 
and send to the laboratory properly labelled. Do not use fertilizer 
contaminated bags.
 • Give the details of the estate, crop harvested for the last 5 years, elevation, 
rainfall details, irrigation schedules if any, variety of coffee and age of the 
bushes. 
61
62
 5. Hutting
 Young plants should be protected from sun light by hutting.
 6.  CBB management
 Follow all the control measures for preventing the infection and spread of 
Coffee berry borer
 7. Winter Irrigation
 Indian coffee tracts experience drought period for more than 4 months and 
sometimes extending up to 6 months. The most important factor which limits the 
production of coffee even in well managed plantations is the long drought period. 
In such situation, if irrigation is provided to coffee, then production of coffee can 
be maintained at most economic level. Robusta being susceptible to drought 
responds well to irrigation compared to Arabica. Since, coffee plants are 
evergreen plants, it is necessary to conserve the soil moisture for the best 
performance of the plants. In case of failure of North –east monsoon, the dry 
period sets in early during September-October months. Therefore, first winter 
irrigation needs to be commenced 20-25 days after the cessation of monsoon. 
Irrigation is to be given (25 mm) once in 20-25 days till the end of December. The 
shade should be maintained at thin level in irrigated plots and plants have to be 
pruned immediately after the harvest. Weeds grow very fast in irrigated plots and 
hence proper timely measures have to be taken to control the weed growth.
 Control of Mealybugs in Robusta Coffee
 Mealybugs are the most important sucking pests of coffee. Mealybugs are 
small, soft bodied insects. They infest tender branches, nodes, leaves, spikes, 
berries and roots in large numbers. Young plants succumb to heavy infestation. 
Mealybugs multiply rapidly during the hot weather with the cessation of monsoon. 
Infestation becomes sever in summer. Intermittent showers and irrigation help in 
the build up of the pest. Excessive removal of shade in Robusta plantations often 
leads to flare up of mealybugs.
 Various species of ants feed on the honeydew and attend the mealybugs. Ants 
are the carriers of mealybugs and therefore, it is essential to control the 
movements of ants in the field in mealybug management.
 Control Measures:
 Control ants by dusting quinalphos 1.5% or methyl parathion 2% around the 
base of coffee and shade trees. Destroy nests of red ants and cocktailed ants. Spray 
the affected plants with Ekalux 25 EC (300 ml) or Lebaycid 1000 (150 ml) or 4 
litres of Kerosene thoroughly mixed in 200 litres of water with 200 ml of any 
wetting agent. Maintain adequate shade in the estate. If the roots are affected, then 
drench the soil near the root zone with any one of the above insecticide except 
Kerosene.
 62
63
 Bordeaux mixture (0.5%) preparation and method of application 
Dissolve 1 kg of pure chemically tested copper sulphate in 10 litres of water 
by suspending it in a gunny bag or cloth bag overnight. Similarly prepare spray 
lime solution by dissolving 1 kg of spray lime in 10 litres of water. Take 180 litres 
of water in a barrel and add the freshly prepared lime solution and stir it well. 
Now slowly add copper sulphate solution to the above lime solution with vigorous 
and constant stirring. This gives the 0.5% Bordeaux mixture. Do not put lime 
solution to copper sulphate solution while preparing the Bordeaux mixture. By 
doing so, the adhering capacity of the spray solution drastically reduces due to the 
formation of coarse precipitate. Such mixture does not stay longer on the leaf 
surface and liable for easy fall and wash off. 
The Bordeaux mixture is very effective when its pH is between 9.0 and 10.0. 
It is advised that the pH of the prepared Bordeaux mixture solution should be 
checked with pocket pH meter. Before the preparation of B.Mixture, it is further 
stressed that the procured spray lime and copper sulphate samples have to be 
tested in the laboratory for their purity so that the right quantity of lime and 
copper sulphate can be added during the preparation of quality Bordeaux mixture. 
Infact, if the purity of the spray lime is 100%, then to prepare a 0.5% 
Bordeaux mixture one should use only 300 gms of spray lime. But unfortunately, 
the quality of spray lime available in the market is not meeting the actual 
specification all the time. Hence, one can use a maximum of 1 Kg of spray lime 
while preparing the B.mixture.  Do not use agricultural lime for the preparation of 
Bordeaux mixture. One should be cautious that, only freshly prepared Bordeaux 
mixture should be used for spray. Do not use the mixture which was prepared in 
the previous day. For leaf rust control spray the solution uniformly only to the 
lower portion of the leaves. In the case of black rot (where 1% Bordeaux mixture 
is used), both upper and lower portion of the leaves have to be covered with spray 
for effective control of the disease. 
Do not add any foreign ingredients to the Bordeaux mixture like urea, 
phosphatic fertilizers, micro-nutrients, insecticides, pesticides and hormones.
 Shade Trees and their Importance
 Coffee tracts in India receive both South-West and North-East monsoon rains 
from June to December. The N-E monsoon rains are received generally during 
October to December. In some years the N-E monsoon tapers off by the end of 
October it self leading to extension of dry period in these areas. Hence, in India coffee 
areas encounter 4-6 months of dry spell in a year. Therefore, the coffee plants 
experience fluctuating weather conditions like continuous wet condition, hail stone, 
heavy winds, prolonged drought and dry periods. These conditions forced our coffee 
farmers to grow coffee under shade.  
Shade trees essentially help in preventing large variations in soil temperature 
and moisture levels. Shade trees reduce the intensity of sun light and temperature, 
combat drought effects and maintain moisture levels in coffee plant tissues and 
protects the plants from low temperature. Shade trees also protect the coffee plants 
from hail stone damage, high wind velocities and prevents over bearing of the plants. 
Adequate shade improves soil fertility by way of returning large amounts of leaf litter 
to the soil. The fallen tree leaf litter improves the organic matter in the soil thereby 
63
64
 increasing the useful micro-organism status in the soil. A properly maintained shade 
also helps in limiting the incidence of coffee pest and diseases. Coffee grown under 
shade is always found to be of superior quality and taste. Shade trees are therefore 
recommended as a protective measure when environmental conditions can be harsh 
especially in areas which are prone to high temperature, extended drought, heavy rain 
fall, high winds and occurrence of hail storm. 
In India, two tier shades is necessary for growing coffee especially for 
Arabica. All trees can provide shade but some are planted with well defined 
objectives to provide desired shade. Therefore while selecting the shade trees; one 
should see that the selected tree species should have the following properties:
 (i)
 They should grow fast
 (ii)
 (iii)
 (iv)
 (v)
 (vi)
 Trees those shed leaves during the rainy season but  put forth fresh 
shoots faster immediately after the rainy season
 Resistance to speedy winds. They should offer resistance to hail 
stones.
 Should have deep root system so that they do not compete for 
applied nutrients and soil surface moisture
 They should not harbour/host pest and diseases affecting coffee
 Select trees which give filtered shade
                       COFFEE WITH TWO TIER SHADE TREES
 Arabica coffee requires 50-60% of the filtered shade for maintaining good 
consistent production. The shade tree branches have to be regulated properly in order 
to provide desired shade to coffee plants. Shade regulation should be done only when 
sufficient moisture is present in the ground soil.  The permanent shade trees can be 
regulated every year by lopping the braches at height of 30-40 feet to provide required 
light and air circulation in the field. In Arabica plantations situated at higher 
elevations (more than 3700 feet) having two tier shade canopy of dadap (lower) and 
permanent (upper) shade trees, shade regulations can be done during February or 
64
65
 March months. In irrigated Robusta fields, the shade regulation can be undertaken 
immediately after the harvest. While in rain fed plantations shade regulation should be 
done only after the receipt of 4-5 inches of rain. Dadap lopping should be undertaken 
immediately after the onset of monsoon and all the stakes should be finely chopped 
and returned to the field along with the leaf mass.
 Labour scarcity is one of the major problems in coffee plantations and 
availability of skilled workers for shade regulation limited. Therefore, in plantations 
while choosing the new shade trees, one has to prefer those shade trees which shed 
leaves during the monsoon but sprouts quickly after the monsoon. Atti and Havalige 
(Balanji) belong to this category of trees. Timber extraction in Arabica fields should 
be done only after establishing the permanent shade trees along with required number 
of dadap trees well in advance of 2-3 years in the area where removal of shade trees is 
proposed. Silver oak trees can be extracted when they reach the age of 30-35 years. 
Maintenance of monoculture shade especially silver oak should be strongly 
discouraged in coffee plantations. The temperature of the soil in such plantations is 
generally higher than other fields. The incidence of white stem borer, leaf rust and 
black rot disease is also more in silver oak shaded plantations.
 The popular kinds of shade trees belong to the Ficus family like goni, basree, 
mitlee and atti. These trees have large spreading braches and deposit large quantity of 
leaf litter in the soil. Albizzia family (leguminosae) trees like kal bage or hotten bage 
are also good shade trees. Jack trees are very common in plantations in South India. 
But the jack fruits should be removed before they mature in order to avoid cattle and 
monkey menaces.
 Retaining higher levels (thick) shade during the monsoon results in the 
incidence of black rot and stalk rot diseases in coffee plants and berry drop due to 
chillness in the soil. When the over head shade is more than desired, vegetative 
growth of the coffee plants will be higher and in such plants flower bud formation 
will decrease. The plots or estates exposed to western aspect should have high shade 
canopy of 60-70% and also the lower branches of the shade trees should be retained 
on the border rows. Silver oak or silk cotton trees should be planted closely in zigzag 
manner as a shield belt for reducing the exposure to evening sun. Do not train pepper 
vines in all the shade trees. The number of vines can be limited to 100 per hectare in 
Arabica. 
65