TIPS ON CONTROL OF
PHYTOPHTHORA FOOT ROT AND
SLOW DECLINE DISEASES OF
BLACK PEPPER
NATIONAL RESEARCH CENTRE FOR SPICES
CALICUT, 673 012, KERALA
root contact.
Aerial Phase: The fungus also infects leaves causing dark
brown spots (lesions) which enlarge rapidly covering major
PHYTOPHTHORA FOOT ROT (QUICK WILT)
This disease was known earlier as quick wilt and is
caused by Phytophthora capsici, a soil borne fungus. All
parts of the plant (leaves, spikes, stems and roots) are
prone to infection.
Symptoms
Soil Phase: The fungus infects roots and the infection
spreads from roots to collar or the foot (stem region at
the ground level) of the bush. Collar infection is fatal.
It also occurs through the infected runner shoots. The
Spike infection-infected spikes
root infection starts during May-June with build up of
soil moisture and continues as long as soil moisture is
high and temperature below 30°C. The affected plants in
early stages of infection show foliar yellowing of different
intensities. In advanced stages, the leaves drop off, aerial
branches break off at the nodes and finally the vine dies.
Occasionally the vine dies without showing any foliar
yellowing. The disease spreads through soil water and
Collar infection (foot rot)
Foliar yellowing symptoms
due to foot rot/root rot
portion of the leaf. The lesions show characteristic fimbriate
margins. Occasionally concentric zonation of the spots
with pale whitish centre is also noticed. Infected leaves
drop-off and thus foliar infection leads to varying degrees
of defoliation. When infection occurs on the branches,
the infected branches turn dark brown due to rotting.
Branches, beyond the point of infection, show foliar
yellowing, defoliation and wilting. Fungus also infects
spikes at any point causing rotting and the affected spikes
drop off. Foliar infection occurs during June-July period
coinciding with heavy rainfall. Disease spreads from lower
regions of thebushto upper parts through rain splashes.
SLOW DECLINE
Slow decline infection causes varying degrees of foliar
yellowing and defoliation. This was earlier known as slow
wilt. It is a debilitating disease complex caused by feeder
root infection by Radopholus similis and Meloidogyne
incognita, two important soil borne plant parasitic
nematodes. Independent infection of roots by P. capsici
and nematodes also might occur. This association varies
from place to place.
* Maintain legume or grass cover in plantations during
rainy season to reduce soil splash and consequent
foliar infection.
Root Rot
The damage to the root caused by these nematodes
combined with Phytophthora weakens the root system
resulting in varying degrees of root rot and leads to foliar
yellowing. Affected vines gradually decline in vigour and
productivity. The disease affected vines with degenerating
root system exhibit intense foliar yellowing from January
onwards with gradual depletion of soil moisture. The vines
with severe root infections dry up during this period.
INTEGRATED DISEASE MANAGEMENT OF
PHYTOPHTHORA FOOT ROT AND SLOW DECLINE
DISEASES
Since P. capsici and plant parasitic nematodes are
soil borne and also inseparable in the natural ecosystem
Root infection - root rot
in majority of the cases, it is important to suppress these
pathogens to boost up vigour and productivity of the vine.
Cultural Practices
* Phytosanitation: Remove infected and dead vines
along with root system from the plantation and burn
to check the population build up of these pathogens.
Drench the spot with 5 lit.of copper oxychloride (0.2%).
Provide good drainage in the plantation where the
plantation is prone for water stagnation.
vine during May-June, which has a suppressive action
both on nematodes and Phytophthora, apart from its
source as nutrient.
*
*
*
*
Lop off branches of live standards during May to
ensure better light penetration and to reduce humidity
build up in the plantation.
Prune off tender runner shoots/leaves and hanging
shoots which are touching the soil or tie them to the
standard to reduce the chances of infection.
Practice minimum tillage concept to avoid injury to
root system.
Avoid frequent movement of personnel from diseased
garden to healthy garden.
Replant atleast one year after the removal of the
dead vine. Plant disease free rooted cuttings-in the
Runner shoot infection Foliar yellowing of the slow decline
affected pepper vine
pits. Burn dry trash in the pits and also drench with
0.2% copper oxychloride 15 days prior to planting.
Biocontrol
pply oil cake soil at m @ kg/
Published by: K.V. Peter, Director.
Text prepared by: Y.R. Sarma, M. Ananda Raj and K.V. Ramana.
Printed at San Jose Process, Thiruvananthapuram 695 014
pR Chemical Control
*
*
*
Spray vines with Bordeaux mixture (1%), drench the
basins with 3-5 litres of (0.2%) copper oxychloride
(2g/lit) or 1% bordeaux mixture, once as a premonsoon treatment (May-June) and again as a postmonsoon treatment (August-September). The quantity of copper oxychloride depends upon size of
canopy. Apply Bordeaux paste upto 30 cm from base
to check collar infection.
Spray the vines with Ridomil-Ziram (2.5 ml/l) or
Ridomil - MZ 72 WP (1.25g/l) and also drench the
base of the vines @ 5 lit./vine by skipping one of the
above bordeaux mixture treatments.
A third round of soil drenching with copper oxychloride/bordeaux mixture can be given during
October, if north-east monsoon continues. Fork in
30g of phorate (Thimet 10G) to the soil around the
vine during May-June and repeat the same during
August-September to check nematodes.
PRECAUTIONS
1. Mild foliar yellowing is an indication of root infection
and needs a careful watch and prompt phytosanitary
and prophylactic action.
2. Presence of runner root infection or leaf infection is a
warning signal to note that Phytophthora is active.
3. Timely application of fungicide/nematicide is important
and application at advanced stages of infection would
be ineffective. Optimum time differs from place to
place depending on the earliness of monsoon showers.
4. Resort to foliar spray at maximum foliage emergence.
5. Adequate soil moisture should be ensured at the time
of nematicide application.
6. Avoid using runner shoots from diseased gardens as
planting materials.
7. Neem oil cake with oil content of atleast 3-4% should
be used as a soil amendment and the solvent extracted
cake will not be effective.